.ad l
.nh
.TH convert 1 "1 May 1994" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
convert - converts an input file using one image format to an output
file with a differing image format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "convert"
[ \fIoptions\fP ... ] \fIinput_file\fP \fIoutput_file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBconvert\fP converts an input file using one image format to an output file
with a differing image format.

\fBconvert\fP recognizes the following image formats:

.TP 6
.B Tag
\fBDescription\fP
.PP
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
.TP 6
.B AVS
AVS X image file.
.TP 6
.B BMP
Microsoft Windows bitmap image file.
.TP 6
.B CMYK
Raw cyan, magenta, yellow, and black bytes.
.TP 6
.B EPS
Adobe Encapsulated PostScript file.
.TP 6
.B EPSF
Adobe Encapsulated PostScript file.
.TP 6
.B EPSI
Adobe Encapsulated PostScript Interchange format.
.TP 6
.B FAX
Group 3.
.TP 6
.B FITS
Flexible Image Transport System.
.TP 6
.B GIF
Compuserve Graphics image file.
.TP 6
.B GIF87
Compuserve Graphics image file (version 87a).
.TP 6
.B GRAY
Raw gray bytes.
.TP 6
.B HISTOGRAM
.TP 6
.B IRIS
SGI RGB image file.
.TP 6
.B JPEG
.TP 6
.B MAP
Red, green, and blue colormap bytes followed by the image colormap indexes.
.TP 6
.B MATTE
Raw matte bytes.
.TP 6
.B MIFF
Magick image file format.
.TP 6
.B MTV
.TP 6
.B PCD
Photo CD.
.TP 6
.B PCX
ZSoft IBM PC Paintbrush file.
.TP 6
.B PICT
Apple Macintosh QuickDraw/PICT file.
.TP 6
.B PNM
Portable bitmap.
.TP 6
.B PS
Adobe PostScript file.
.TP 6
.B PS2
Adobe Level II PostScript file.
.TP 6
.B RGB
Raw red, green, and blue bytes.
.TP 6
.B RLE
Utah Run length encoded image file; read only.
.TP 6
.B SUN
SUN Rasterfile.
.TP 6
.B TEXT
raw text file; read only.
.TP 6
.B TGA
Truevision Targa image file.
.TP 6
.B TIFF
Tagged Image File Format.
.TP 6
.B VICAR
read only.
.TP 6
.B VIFF
Khoros Visualization image file.
.TP 6
.B X
select image from X server screen.
.TP 6
.B XC
constant image of X server color.  Specify the desired color as the filename.
.TP 6
.B XBM
X11 bitmap file.
.TP 6
.B XPM
X11 pixmap file.
.TP 6
.B XWD
X Window System window dump image file.
.TP 6
.B YUV
CCIR 601 1:1:1 file.
.TP 6
.B YUV3
CCIR-601 2:1:1 files.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To convert a \fIMIFF\fP image of a cockatoo to a SUN raster image, use:
.PP
.B
     convert cockatoo.miff sun:cockatoo.ras
.PP
To convert a multi-page \fIPostscript\fP document to individual FAX pages, use:
.PP
.B
     convert -monochrome document.ps fax:page
.PP
To convert a TIFF image to a \fIPostscript\fP A4 page with the image in
the lower left-hand corner, use:
.PP
.B
     convert -page 595x842+0+0 image.tiff document.ps
.PP
To convert a raw \fBGRAY\fP image to a portable graymap, use:
.PP
.B
     convert -geometry 768x512 gray:raw image.pgm
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-blur"
blur the image.
.TP 5
.B "-border \fI<width>x<height>fP"
surround the image with a border or color.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.

The color of the border is obtained from the X server and is defined as
\fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).  See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-clip \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the clipped image.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.

Use clipping to crop a particular area of an image.   Use \fB-clip
0x0\fP to remove edges that are the background color.
.TP 5
.B "-colors \fIvalue\fP"
preferred number of colors in the image.

The actual number of colors in the image may be less than your request,
but never more.  Note, this is a color reduction option.  Images with
less unique colors than specified with this option will remain unchanged.
Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.

Note, options \fB-dither\fP, \fB-colorspace\fP, and \fB-treedepth\fP affect
the color reduction algorithm.
.TP 5
.B "-colorspace \fIvalue\fP"
the type of colorspace: \fBGRAY\fP, \fBOHTA\fP, \fBRGB\fP, \fBXYZ\fP,
\fBYCbCr\fP, \fBYIQ\fP, or \fBYUV\fP.

Color reduction, by default, takes place in the RGB color space.
Empirical evidence suggests that distances in color spaces such as YUV
or YIQ correspond to perceptual color differences more closely
than do distances in RGB space.  These color spaces may give better
results when color reducing an image.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for
more details.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required for this option
to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-comment \fIstring\fP"
annotate an image with a comment.

By default, each image is commented with its file name.  Use this
option to assign a specific comment to the image.  Optionally you can
include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene number by
embedding special format characters.  Embed \fB%f\fP for filename,
\fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width, \fB%h\fP for height, \fB%s\fP
for scene number, or \fB\\n\fP for newline.  For example,

.nf
     -comment "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi

produces an image comment of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image comment is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
.TP 5
.B "-compress \fItype\fP"
the type of image compression: \fIQEncoded\fP or \fIRunlengthEncoded\fP.

Specify \fB\+compress\fP to store the binary image in an uncompressed format.
The default is the compression type of the specified image file.
.TP 5
.B "-density \fI<width>x<height>
vertical and horizontal density of the image.

This option specifies an image density for a Postscript page.
The default is 72 dots per inch in the horizontal and vertical direction.
Use this option to alter the default density.
.TP 5
.B "-despeckle"
reduce the speckles within an image.
.TP 5
.B "-display \fIhost:display[.screen]\fP"
specifies the X server to contact; see \fBX(1)\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-dither"
apply Floyd/Steinberg error diffusion to the image.

The basic strategy of dithering is to trade intensity resolution for
spatial resolution by averaging the intensities of several neighboring
pixels.  Images which suffer from severe contouring when reducing colors
can be improved with this option.

The \fB-colors\fP option is required for dithering to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-edge"
detect edges with an image.
.TP 5
.B "-enhance"
apply a digital filter to enhance a noisy image.
.TP 5
.B "-equalize"
perform histogram equalization to the image.
.TP 5
.B "-flip"
create a "mirror image" by reflecting the image scanlines in the vertical
direction.
.TP 5
.B "-flop"
create a "mirror image" by reflecting the image scanlines in the horizontal
direction.
.TP 5
.B "-font \fIname\fP"
This option specifies the font to be used for displaying normal text.
The default is \fBfixed\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-gamma \fIvalue\fP"
level of gamma correction.

The same color image displayed on two different workstations may look
different due to differences in the display monitor.  Use gamma
correction to adjust for this color difference.  Reasonable values
extend from 0.8 to 2.3.

You can apply separate gamma values to the red, green, and blue
channels of the image with a gamma value list delineated with commas
(i.e. 1.7,2.3,1.2).
.TP 5
.B "-geometry \fI<width>{%}x<height>{%}{+colors}{!}"
the width and height of the image.

By default, the width and height are maximum values.  That is, the
image is expanded or contracted to fit the width and height value while
maintaining the aspect ratio of the image.  Append an exclamation point
to the geometry to force the image size to exactly the size you
specify.  For example, if you specify \fB640x480!\fP the image width is
set to 640 pixels and height to 480.  If only one factor is
specified, both the width and height assume the value. 

To specify a percentage width or height instead, append \fB%\fP.  The
image size is multiplied by the width and height percentages to obtain
the final image dimensions.  To increase the size of an image, use a
value greater than 100 (e.g. 125%).  To decrease an image's size, use a
percentage less than 100.

Use this option to specify the width and height of raw images whose
dimensions are unknown such as \fBGRAY\fP, \fBRGB\fP, or \fBCMYK\fP.
In addition to width and height, use \fB-geometry\fP to tell the number
of colors in a \fBMAP\fP image file, (e.g. -geometry 640x512+256).
.TP 5
.B "-interlace \fItype\fP"
the type of interlacing scheme: \fBNONE\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBPLANE\fP.

This option is used to specify the type of interlacing scheme for raw
image formats such as \fBRGB\fP or \fBYUV\fP.  \fBNONE\fP means do not
interlace (RGBRGBRGBRGBRGBRGB...), \fBLINE\fP uses scanline
interlacing (RRR...GGG...BBB...RRR...GGG...BBB...), and \fBPLANE\fP uses
plane interlacing (RRRRRR...GGGGGG...BBBBBB...).
.B "-label \fIname\fP"
assign a label to an image.

Use this option to assign a specific label to the image.  Optionally
you can include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene
number in the label by embedding special format characters.   Embed
\fB%f\fP for filename, \fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width,
\fB%h\fP for height, or \fB%s\fP for scene number.  For example,
.nf
     -label "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi
produces an image label of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image label is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.

When converting to Postscript, use this option to specify a header string
to print above the image.
.TP 5
.B "-matte"
store matte channel if the image has one.
.TP 5
.B "-monochrome"
transform the image to black and white.
.TP 5
.B "-negate"
apply color inversion to image.

The red, green, and blue intensities of an image are negated.
.TP 5
.TP 5
.B "-noise"
reduce the noise in an image with a noise peak elimination filter.

The principal function of noise peak elimination filter is to smooth
the objects within an image without losing edge information and without
creating undesired structures.  The central idea of the algorithm is to
replace a pixel with its next neighbor in value within a 3 x 3 window,
if this pixel has been found to be noise.  A pixel is defined as noise
if and only if this pixel is a maximum or minimum within the 3 x 3 window.
.TP 5
.B "-normalize"
transform image to span the full range of color values.

This is a contrast enhancement technique.
.TP 5
.B "-page \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the Postscript page.

Use this option to specify the dimensions of the Postscript page in
picas or a TEXT page in pixels.  The default for a Postscript page is
to center the image on a letter page 612 by 792 dots per inch.  The
left and right margins are 18 picas and the top and bottom 94 picas
(i.e.  612x792+18+94).  Other common sizes are:

    540x720   Note
    612x1008  Legal
    842x1190  A3
    595x842   A4
    421x595   A5
    297x421   A6
    709x1002  B4
    612x936   U.S. Foolscap
    612x936   European Foolscap
    396x612   Half Letter
    792x1224  11x17
    1224x792  Ledger

The page geometry is relative to the vertical and horizontal density of the
Postscript page.  See \fB-density\fP for details.

The default page dimensions for a TEXT image is 612x792+36+36.
.TP 5
.B "-quality \fIvalue\fP"
JPEG quality setting.

Quality is 0 (worst) to 100 (best). The default is 85.
.TP 5
.B "-roll \fI{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
roll an image vertically or horizontally.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.
 
A negative \fIx offset\fP rolls the image left-to-right.  A negative
\fIy offset\fP rolls the image top-to-bottom.
.TP 5
.B "-rotate \fIdegrees\fP"
apply Paeth image rotation to the image.

Empty triangles left over from rotating the image are filled with
the color defined as \fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).
See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-scene \fIvalue\fP"
image scene number.
.TP 5
.B "-sharpen"
sharpen the image.
.TP 5
.B "-shear \fI<x degrees>x<y degrees>\fP"
shear the image along the X or Y axis by a positive or negative shear angle.

Shearing slides one edge of an image along the X or Y axis, creating a
parallelogram.  An X direction shear slides an edge along the X axis,
while a Y direction shear slides an edge along the Y axis.  The amount
of the shear is controlled by a shear angle.  For X direction shears,
\fIx degrees\fP is measured relative to the Y axis, and similarly, for
Y direction shears \fIy degrees\fP is measured relative to the X axis.

Empty triangles left over from shearing the image are filled with
the color defined as \fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).
See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-treedepth \fIvalue\fP"
Normally, this integer value is zero or one.  A zero or one tells
\fBconvert\fP to choose a optimal tree depth for the color reduction
algorithm.

An optimal depth generally allows the best representation of the source
image with the fastest computational speed and the least amount of
memory.  However, the default depth is inappropriate for some images.
To assure the best representation, try values between 2 and 8 for this
parameter.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.

The \fB-colors\fP option is required for this option to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-undercolor \fI<undercolor factor>x<black-generation factor>\fP"
control undercolor removal and black generation on CMYK images.

This option enables you to perform undercolor removal and black
generation on CMYK images-- images to be printed on a four-color
printing system. You can control how much cyan, magenta, and yellow
to remove from your image and how much black to add to it.
The standard undercolor removal is \fB1.0x1.0\fP.  You'll
frequently get better results, though, if the percentage of black you
add to your image is slightly higher than the percentage of C, M, and Y
you remove from it.  For example you might try \fB0.5x0.7\fP.
.TP 5
.B -verbose
print detailed information about the image.

This information is printed: image scene number;  image name;  converted
image name;  image size;  the image class (\fIDirectClass\fP or 
\fIPseudoClass\fP);  the total number of unique colors;  and the number
of seconds to read and convert the image.
.PP
Change '-' to '+' in any option above to reverse its effect.  For
example, specify +matte to store the image without its matte channel.
.PP
By default, the image format is determined by its magic number. To
specify a particular image format, precede the filename with an image
format name and a colon (i.e. ps:image) or specify the image type as
the filename suffix (i.e. image.ps).  See \fBDESCRIPTION\fP for a list
of valid formats.
.PP
When you specify \fBX\fP as your image type, the filename has special
meaning.  It specifies an X window by id, name, or \fBroot\fP.  If no
filename is specified, the window is selected by clicking the mouse in
the desired window.
.PP
Specify \fIinput_file\fP as \fI-\fP for standard input,
\fIoutput_file\fP as \fI-\fP for standard output.  If \fIinput_file\fP
has the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file is uncompressed with
\fBuncompress\fP or \fBgunzip\fP respectively.  If \fIoutput_file\fP
has the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file size is compressed
using with \fBcompress\fP or \fBgzip\fP respectively.  Finally, precede
the image file name with \fI|\fP to pipe to or from a system command.
.PP
Single images are written with the filename you specify.  However,
multi-part images (i.e. a multi-page Postscript document) are written
with the filename followed by a period (\fB.\fP) and the
scene number.  You can change this behavior by embedding a \fBprintf\fP
format specification in the file name.  For example,
.nf
	image%02d.miff
.fi
converts files image00.miff, image01.miff, etc.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 5
.B display
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
display(1), animate(1), import(1), montage(1), mogrify(1), 
segment(1), combine(1), xtp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH AUTHORS
John Cristy, E.I. du Pont De Nemours and Company Incorporated
