.ad l
.nh
.TH display 1 "1 May 1994" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
display - display an image on any workstation running X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "display" [ \fIoptions\fP ...] \fIfile\fP
[ [ \fIoptions\fP ...] \fIfile\fP ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDisplay\fP is a machine architecture independent image processing
and display program.  It can display an image on any workstation
display running an X server.  \fBDisplay\fP can read and write many of
the more popular image formats (e.g. JPEG, TIFF, PNM, etc.).  You can
perform these functions on the image:

    o display information about the image
    o write the image to a file
    o print the image to a Postscript printer
    o delete the image file
    o load an image from a file
    o display the next image
    o display the former image
    o select the image to display by its thumbnail rather than name
    o undo last image transformation
    o restore the image to its original size
    o half the image size
    o double the image size
    o resize the image
    o trim the image edges
    o clip the image
    o cut the image
    o flop image in the horizontal direction
    o flip image in the vertical direction
    o rotate the image 90 degrees clockwise
    o rotate the image 90 degrees counter-clockwise
    o rotate the image
    o shear the image
    o invert the colors of the image
    o perform histogram equalization on the image
    o perform histogram normalization on the image
    o gamma correct the image
    o reduce the speckles within an image
    o eliminate peak noise from an image
    o detect edges within the image
    o convert the image to grayscale
    o set the maximum number of unique colors in the image
    o annotate the image with text
    o add a border to the image
    o composite image with another
    o edit an image pixel color
    o edit the image matte information
    o add an image comment
    o display information about this program
    o discard all images and exit program
    o change the level of magnification
.SH EXAMPLES
To scale an image of a cockatoo to exactly 640 pixels in width and 480
pixels in height and position the window at location (200,200), use:
.PP
.B
     display -geometry 640x480\+200\+200! cockatoo.miff
.PP
To display an image of a cockatoo without a border centered on a
backdrop, use:
.PP
.B
     display +borderwidth -backdrop cockatoo.miff
.PP
To tile an image of a cockatoo onto the root window, use:
.PP
.B
     display -window root cockatoo.miff
.PP
To display a MAP image that is 640 pixels in width and 480
pixels in height with 256 colors, use:
.PP
.B
     display -geometry 640x480\+256 cockatoo.map
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-backdrop"
display the image centered on a backdrop.

This backdrop covers the entire workstation screen and is useful for
hiding other X window activity while viewing the image.   The color of
the backdrop is specified as the background color.  Refer to \fBX
RESOURCES\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-blur"
blur an image.
.TP 5
.B "-border \fI<width>x<height>fP"
surround the image with a border or color.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.
 
The color of the border is obtained from the X server and is defined as
\fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).  See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-clip \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the clipped image.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.

Use clipping to apply image processing options to, or display, a
particular area of an image.  Use \fB-clip 0x0\fP to remove edges that are
the background color.

The equivalent X resource for this option is \fBclipGeometry\fP
(class \fBClipGeometry\fP).  See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-colormap \fItype\fP"
the type of colormap: \fBShared\fP or \fBPrivate\fP.

This option only applies when the default X server visual is
\fIPseudoColor\fP or \fIGrayScale\fP.  Refer to \fB-visual\fP for more
details.  By default, a shared colormap is allocated.  The image shares
colors with other X clients.  Some image colors could be approximated,
therefore your image may look very different than intended.  Choose
\fBPrivate\fP and the image colors appear exactly as they are
defined.  However, other clients may go "technicolor" when the image
colormap is installed.
.TP 5
.B "-colors \fIvalue\fP"
preferred number of colors in the image.

The actual number of colors in the image may be less than your request,
but never more.  Note, this is a color reduction option.  Images with
less unique colors than specified with this option will remain unchanged.
Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.

Note, options \fB-dither\fP, \fB-colorspace\fP, and \fB-treedepth\fP affect
the color reduction algorithm.
.TP 5
.B "-colorspace \fIvalue\fP"
the type of colorspace: \fBGRAY\fP, \fBOHTA\fP, \fBRGB\fP, \fBXYZ\fP,
\fBYCbCr\fP, \fBYIQ\fP, or \fBYUV\fP.

Color reduction, by default, takes place in the RGB color space.
Empirical evidence suggests that distances in color spaces such as YUV
or YIQ correspond to perceptual color differences more closely
than do distances in RGB space.  These color spaces may give better
results when color reducing an image.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for
more details.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required for this option
to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-comment \fIstring\fP"
annotate an image with a comment.

By default, each image is commented with its file name.  Use this
option to assign a specific comment to the image.  Optionally you can
include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene number by
embedding special format characters.  Embed \fB%f\fP for filename,
\fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width, \fB%h\fP for height, \fB%s\fP
for scene number, or \fB\\n\fP for newline.  For example,

.nf
     -comment "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi

produces an image comment of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.
 
If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image comment is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
.TP 5
.B "-compress \fItype\fP"
the type of image compression: \fIQEncoded\fP or \fIRunlengthEncoded\fP.

Use this option with \fB-write\fP to specify the the type of image
compression.  See \fBmiff(5)\fP for details.

Specify \fB\+compress\fP to store the binary image in an uncompressed format.
The default is the compression type of the specified image file.
.TP 5
.B "-delay \fIseconds\fP"
display the next image after pausing.

This option is useful when viewing several images in sequence.  Each
image will display and wait the number of seconds specified before the
next image is displayed.  The default is to display the image
and wait until you choose to display the next image or terminate the
program.
.TP 5
.B "-density \fI<width>x<height>
vertical and horizontal density of the image.

This option specifies an image density for a Postscript page.
The default is 72 dots per inch in the horizontal and vertical direction.
Use this option to alter the default density.
.TP 5
.B "-despeckle"
reduce the speckles within an image.
.TP 5
.B "-display \fIhost:display[.screen]\fP"
specifies the X server to contact; see \fBX(1)\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-dither"
apply Floyd/Steinberg error diffusion to the image.

The basic strategy of dithering is to trade intensity resolution for
spatial resolution by averaging the intensities of several neighboring
pixels.  Images which suffer from severe contouring when reducing colors
can be improved with this option.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required
for this option to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-edge"
detect edges within an image.
.TP 5
.B "-enhance"
apply a digital filter to enhance a noisy image.
.TP 5
.B "-equalize"
perform histogram equalization to the image.
.TP 5
.B "-flip"
create a "mirror image" by reflecting the image scanlines in the vertical
direction.
.TP 5
.B "-flop"
create a "mirror image" by reflecting the image scanlines in the horizontal
direction.
.TP 5
.B "-gamma \fIvalue\fP"
level of gamma correction.

The same color image displayed on two different workstations may look
different due to differences in the display monitor.  Use gamma
correction to adjust for this color difference.  Reasonable values
extend from 0.8 to 2.3.

You can apply separate gamma values to the red, green, and blue
channels of the image with a gamma value list delineated with commas
(i.e. 1.7,2.3,1.2).
.TP 5
.B "-geometry \fI<width>{%}x<height>{%}{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>{!}\fP"
preferred size and location of the image window.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.  By default, the window size is the image
size and the location is choosen by you when it is mapped.

By default, the width and height are maximum values.  That is, the
image is expanded or contracted to fit the width and height value while
maintaining the aspect ratio of the image.  Append an exclamation point
to the geometry to force the image size to exactly the size you
specify.  For example, if you specify \fB640x480!\fP the image width is
set to 640 pixels and height to 480.  If only one factor is
specified, both the width and height assume the value. 

To specify a percentage width or height instead, append \fB%\fP.  The
image size is multiplied by the width and height percentages to obtain
the final image dimensions.  To increase the size of an image, use a
value greater than 100 (e.g. 125%).  To decrease an image's size, use a
percentage less than 100.

When displaying an image on an X server, \fI<x offset>\fP and
\fI<y offset>\fP is relative to the root window.

The equivalent X resource for this option is \fBimageGeometry\fP
(class \fBImageGeometry\fP).  See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-interlace \fItype\fP"
the type of interlacing scheme: \fBNONE\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBPLANE\fP.

This option is used to specify the type of interlacing scheme for raw
image formats such as \fBRGB\fP or \fBYUV\fP.  \fBNONE\fP means do not
interlace (RGBRGBRGBRGBRGBRGB...), \fBLINE\fP uses scanline
interlacing (RRR...GGG...BBB...RRR...GGG...BBB...), and \fBPLANE\fP uses
plane interlacing (RRRRRR...GGGGGG...BBBBBB...).
.TP 5
.B "-label \fIname\fP"
assign a label to an image.

Use this option to assign a specific label to the image.  Optionally
you can include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene
number in the label by embedding special format characters.   Embed
\fB%f\fP for filename, \fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width,
\fB%h\fP for height, or \fB%s\fP for scene number.  For example,
.nf
     -label "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi
produces an image label of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image label is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
 
When converting to Postscript, use this option to specify a header string
to print above the image.
.TP 5
.B "-map \fItype\fP"
display image using this Standard Colormap type.

Choose from these Standard Colormap types:

    default
    best
    red
    green
    blue
    gray

The X server must support the Standard Colormap you choose, otherwise an
error occurs.  See \fBxstdcmap(1)\fP for one way of creating Standard
Colormaps.
.TP 5
.B "-matte"
store matte channel if the image has one.
.TP 5
.B "-monochrome"
transform the image to black and white.
.TP 5
.B "-negate"
apply color inversion to image.

The red, green, and blue intensities of an image are negated.
.TP 5
.B "-noise"
reduce the noise in an image with a noise peak elimination filter.

The principal function of noise peak elimination filter is to smooth
the objects within an image without losing edge information and without
creating undesired structures.  The central idea of the algorithm is to
replace a pixel with its next neighbor in value within a 3 x 3 window,
if this pixel has been found to be noise.  A pixel is defined as noise
if and only if this pixel is a maximum or minimum within the 3 x 3 window.
.TP 5
.B "-normalize"
transform image to span the full range of color values.

This is a contrast enhancement technique.
.TP 5
.B "-page \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
size and location of the Postscript page.

Use this option to specify the dimensions of the Postscript page in
picas or a TEXT page in pixels.  The default for a Postscript page is
to center the image on a letter page 612 by 792 dots per inch.  The
left and right margins are 18 picas and the top and bottom 94 picas
(i.e.  612x792+18+94).  Other common sizes are:

    540x720   Note
    612x1008  Legal
    842x1190  A3
    595x842   A4
    421x595   A5
    297x421   A6
    709x1002  B4
    612x936   U.S. Foolscap
    612x936   European Foolscap
    396x612   Half Letter
    792x1224  11x17
    1224x792  Ledger

The page geometry is relative to the vertical and horizontal density of the
Postscript page.  See \fB-density\fP for details.

The default page dimensions for a TEXT image is 612x792+36+36.
.TP 5
.B "-quality \fIvalue\fP"
JPEG quality setting.

Quality is 0 (worst) to 100 (best). The default is 85.
.TP 5
.B "-roll \fI{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
roll an image vertically or horizontally.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.
 
A negative \fIx offset\fP rolls the image left-to-right.  A negative
\fIy offset\fP rolls the image top-to-bottom.
.TP 5
.B "-rotate \fIdegrees\fP"
apply Paeth image rotation to the image.

Empty triangles left over from rotating the image are filled with
the color defined as \fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).
See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-scene \fIvalue\fP"
image scene number.

Use this option to specify an image sequence with a single filename.  See
the discussion of \fIfile\fP below for details.
.TP 5
.B "-sharpen"
sharpen an image.
.TP 5
.B "-shear \fI<x degrees>x<y degrees>\fP"
shear the image along the X or Y axis by a positive or negative shear angle.
 
Shearing slides one edge of an image along the X or Y axis, creating a
parallelogram.  An X direction shear slides an edge along the X axis,
while a Y direction shear slides an edge along the Y axis.  The amount
of the shear is controlled by a shear angle.  For X direction shears,
\fIx degrees>\fP is measured relative to the Y axis, and similarly, for
Y direction shears \fIy degrees\fP is measured relative to the X axis.
 
Empty triangles left over from shearing the image are filled with
the color defined as \fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).
See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-treedepth \fIvalue\fP"
Normally, this integer value is zero or one.  A zero or one tells
\fBdisplay\fP to choose a optimal tree depth for the color reduction
algorithm.

An optimal depth generally allows the best representation of the source
image with the fastest computational speed and the least amount of
memory.  However, the default depth is inappropriate for some images.
To assure the best representation, try values between 2 and 8 for this
parameter.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required
for this option to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-update \fIseconds\fP"
detect when image file is modified and redisplay.

Suppose that while you are displaying an image the file that is
currently displayed is over-written.  \fBdisplay\fP will automatically
detect that the input file has been changed and update the displayed
image accordingly.
.TP 5
.B -verbose
print detailed information about the image.

This information is printed: image scene number;  image name;  image
size; the image class (\fIDirectClass\fP or \fIPseudoClass\fP);  the total
number of unique colors;  and the number of seconds to read and
transform the image.  Refer to \fBmiff(5)\fP for a description of
the image class.

If \fB-colors\fP is also specified, the total unique colors in the image
and color reduction error values are printed.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP
for a description of these values.
.TP 5
.B "-visual \fItype\fP"
display image using this visual type.

Choose from these visual classes:

    StaticGray
    GrayScale
    StaticColor
    PseudoColor
    TrueColor
    DirectColor
    default
    \fIvisual id\fP

The X server must support the visual you choose, otherwise an error occurs.
If a visual is not specified, the visual class that can display the most
simultaneous colors on the default X server screen is choosen.
.TP 5
.B "-window \fIid\fP"
set the background pixmap of this window to the image.

\fIid\fP can be a window id or name.  Specify \fBroot\fP to select X's root
window as the target window.

By default the image is tiled onto the background of the target
window.   If \fB-backdrop\fP or \fB-geometry\fP are specified, the
image is surrounded by the background color.  Refer to \fBX
RESOURCES\fP for details.

The image will not display on the root window if the image has more
unique colors than the target window colormap allows.  Use
\fB-colors\fP to reduce the number of colors.
.TP 5
.B "-write \fIfilename\fP"
write image to a file.

If \fIfile\fP already exists, you will be prompted as to whether
it should be overwritten.

By default, the image is written in the format that it was read in as.
To specify a particular image format, prefix \fIfile\fP with the image
type and a colon (i.e. ps:image) or specify the image type as the
filename suffix (i.e. image.ps).  See \fBconvert(1)\fP for a list of
valid image formats.  Specify \fIfile\fP as \fI-\fP for standard
output.  If \fIfile\fP has the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the
file size is compressed using with \fBcompress\fP or \fBgzip\fP
respectively.  Precede the image file name \fI|\fP to pipe to a system
command. If \fIfile\fP already exists, you will be prompted as to
whether it should be overwritten.

Use \fB-compress\fP to specify the type of image compression.

The equivalent X resource for this option is \fBwriteFilename\fP
(class \fBWriteFilename\fP).  See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.PP
In addition to those listed above, you can specify these standard X
resources as command line options:  \fB-background\fP,
\fB-bordercolor\fP, \fB-borderwidth\fP, \fB-font\fP, \fB-foreground\fP,
\fB-iconGeometry\fP, \fB-iconic\fP, \fB-mattecolor\fP, \fB-name\fP, or
\fB-title\fP.  See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.PP
Any option you specify on the command line remains in effect until it is
explicitly changed by specifying the option again with a different effect.
For example to display two images, the first with 32 colors, and the
second with only 16 colors, use:
.PP
     display -colors 32 cockatoo.miff -colors 16 macaw.miff
.PP
Change \fI-\fP to \fI\+\fP in any option above to reverse its effect.
For example, specify \fB\+matte\fP to store the image without its matte
channel.
.PP
By default, the image format is determined by its magic number. To
specify a particular image format, precede the filename with an image
format name and a colon (i.e. ps:image) or specify the image type as
the filename suffix (i.e. image.ps).  See \fBconvert(1)\fP for a list
of valid image formats.
.PP
When you specify \fBX\fP as your image type, the filename has special
meaning.  It specifies an X window by id, name, or \fBroot\fP.  If no
filename is specified, the window is selected by clicking the mouse in
the desired window.
.PP
Specify \fIfile\fP as \fI-\fP for standard input.  If \fIfile\fP has
the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file is uncompressed with
\fBuncompress\fP or \fBgunzip\fP respectively.  Precede the image file
name \fI|\fP to pipe from a system command.
.PP
Single images are read with the filename you specify.  Alternatively,
you can display an image sequence with a single filename.  Define the
range of the image sequence with \fI-scene\fP.  Each image in the
range is read with the filename followed by a period (\fB.\fP)
and the scene number.  You can change this behavior by embedding a
\fBprintf\fP format specification in the file name.  For example,
.nf
        -scene 0-9 image%02d.miff
.fi
displays files image00.miff, image01.miff, through image09.miff.
.SH BUTTONS
The effects of each button press is described below.  Three buttons are
required.  If you have a two button mouse, button 1 and 3 are returned.
Press ALT and button 3 to simulate button 2.
.TP 5
.B "1"
Press and drag to select a command from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these menu items:

    File
      Image Info
      Write...
      Print...
      Load...
      Next
      Former
    Edit
      Undo
      Restore
      Refresh
    View
      Half Size
      Original Size
      Double Size
      Resize...
    Transform
      Trim Edges
      Clip
      Cut
      Flop
      Flip
      Rotate Right
      Rotate Left
      Rotate...
    Enhance
      Negate
      Equalize
      Normalize
      Gamma...
    Effects
      Despeckle
      Peak Noise
      Sharpen
      Blur
      Edge Detect
      Grayscale
      Quantize...
    Image Edit
      Annotate
      Add Border...
      Composite...
      Color
      Matte
      Comment
    Help
    Quit

The indented items are members of a sub-menu.  Access them by moving the
pointer toward the right edge of the menu.
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press and drag to define a region of the image to magnify.
.TP 5
.B "3"
If the image is a montage image, choose a particular tile of the image
and press this button. The image represented by the tile is then
displayed.  To return to the composite MIFF image, choose \fINext\fP
from the command menu (refer to Button 1).  See \fBmontage(1)\fP and
\fBmiff(5)\fP for more details.
.SH KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
.TP 5
.B "i"
Press to display information about the image.
.TP 5
.B "w"
Press to write the image to a file.
.TP 5
.B "p"
Press to print the image to a Postscript printer.
.TP 5
.B "d"
Press to delete an image file.
.TP 5
.B "l"
Press to load an image from a file.
.TP 5
.B "n"
Press to display the next image.
.TP 5
.B "f"
Press to display the former image.
.TP 5
.B "u"
Press to undo last image transformation.
.TP 5
.B "r"
Press to restore the image to its original size.
.TP 5
.B "@"
Press to refresh the image window.
.TP 5
.B "<"
Press to half the image size.
.TP 5
.B "<"
Press to return to the original image size.
.TP 5
.B ">"
Press to double the image size.
.TP 5
.B "%"
Press to resize the image to a width and height you specify.
.TP 5
.B "t"
Press to trim the image edges.
.TP 5
.B "["
Press to crop the image.

Refer to \fBIMAGE CROPPING\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "]"
Press to cut the image.

Refer to \fBIMAGE CUTTING\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "|"
Press to flop image in the horizontal direction.
.TP 5
.B "-"
Press to flip image in the vertical direction.
.TP 5
.B "/"
Press to rotate the image 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP 5
.B \(bs
Press to rotate the image 90 degrees counter-clockwise.
.TP 5
.B "*"
Press to rotate the image the number of degrees you specify.

Refer to \fBIMAGE ROTATION\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "s"
Press to shear the image the number of degrees you specify.
.TP 5
.B "~"
Press to invert the colors of the image.
.TP 5
.B "="
Press to perform histogram equalization on the image.
.TP 5
.B "N"
Press to perform histogram normalization on the image.
.TP 5
.B "g"
Press to gamma correct the image.
.TP 5
.B "D"
Press to reduce the speckles in an image.
.TP 5
.B "P"
Press to eliminate peak noise from an image.
.TP 5
.B "S"
Press to sharpen an image.
.TP 5
.B "B"
Press to delete an image file.
.TP 5
.B "E"
Press to detect edges within an image.
.TP 5
.B "G"
Press to convert the image colors to gray.
.TP 5
.B "Q"
Press to set the maximum number of unique colors in the image.
.TP 5
.B "a"
Press to annotate the image with text.

Refer to \fBIMAGE ANNOTATION\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "n"
Press to add a border to the image.
.TP 5
.B "x"
Press to composite the image with another.

Refer to \fBIMAGE COMPOSITING\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "c"
Press to edit an image pixel color.

Refer to \fBCOLOR EDITING\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "m"
Press to edit the image matte information.

Refer to \fBMATTE EDITING\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B "#"
Press to add an image comment.
.TP 5
.B "h"
Press to display helpful information about \fBdisplay(1)\fP.

Function keys \fIHELP\fP or \fIF1\fP are synonomous with the \fIh\fP key.
.TP 5
.B "v"
Press to display the version number of \fBdisplay(1)\fP.
.TP 5
.B "q"
Press to discard all images and exit program.
.TP 5
.B "1-9"
Press to change the level of magnification.
.PP
Use the arrow keys to move the image one pixel up, down, left, or right within
the magnify window.  Be sure to first map the magnify window by pressing
button 3.

Press \fBALT\fP and one of the arrow keys to trim off one pixel from
any side of the image.
.SH "X RESOURCES"
\fBdisplay\fP options can appear on the command line or in your X
resource file.  Options on the command line supersede values specified
in your X resource file.  See \fBX(1)\fP for more information on X
resources.

All \fBdisplay\fP options have a corresponding X resource.  In addition,
\fBdisplay\fP uses the following X resources:
.TP 5
.B background (\fIclass\fP Background)
Specifies the preferred color to use for the image window background.  The
default is #ccc.
.TP 5
.B borderColor (\fIclass\fP BorderColor)
Specifies the preferred color to use for the image window border.  The
default is black.
.TP 5
.B borderWidth (\fIclass\fP BorderWidth)
Specifies the width in pixels of the image window border.  The default is 2.
.TP 5
.B editorCommand (\fIclass\fP editorCommand)
Specifies the name of the preferred editor when editing image comments.
The default is \fIxterm -e vi %s\fP.
.TP 5
.B fontList (\fIclass\fP FontList)
Specifies the name of the preferred font to use when displaying text
within the image window.  The default is 14 point \fIHelvetica\fP.
.TP 5
.B font[1-9] (\fIclass\fP Font[1-9])
Specifies the name of the preferred font to use when annotating the
image window with text.  The default fonts are \fIfixed\fP,
\fIvariable\fP, \fI5x8\fP, \fI6x10\fP, \fI7x13bold\fP, \fI8x13bold\fP,
\fI9x15bold\fP, \fI10x20\fP, and \fI12x24\fP.  Refer to \fBIMAGE
ANNOTATION\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B foreground (\fIclass\fP Foreground)
Specifies the preferred color to use for text within the image window.  The
default is black.
.TP 5
.B iconGeometry (\fIclass\fP IconGeometry)
Specifies the preferred size and position of the application when
iconified.  It is not necessarily obeyed by all window managers.
.TP 5
.B iconic (\fIclass\fP Iconic)
This resource indicates that you would prefer that the application's
windows initially not be visible as if the windows had be immediately
iconified by you.  Window managers may choose not to honor the
application's request.
.TP 5
.B magnify (\fIclass\fP Magnify)
specifies an integral factor by which the image should be enlarged.  The
default is 3.

This value only affects the magnification window which is invoked with
button number 3 after the image is displayed.  Refer to \fBBUTTONS\fP
for more details.
.TP 5
.B matteColor (\fIclass\fP MatteColor)
Specify the color of windows.  It is used for the backgrounds of
windows, menus, and notices.  A 3D  effect  is achieved  by
using highlight and shadow colors derived from this color.  Default
value: #ddd.
.TP 5
.B name (\fIclass\fP Name)
This resource specifies the name under which resources for the
application should be found.  This resource is useful in shell aliases to
distinguish between invocations of an application, without resorting to
creating links to alter the executable file name.  The default is the
application name.
.TP 5
.B pen[1-9] (\fIclass\fP Pen[1-9])
Specifies the color of the preferred font to use when annotating the
image window with text.  The default colors are \fIblack\fP,
\fIblue\fP, \fIgreen\fP, \fIcyan\fP, \fIgray\fP, \fIred\fP,
\fImagenta\fP, \fIyellow\fP, and \fIwhite\fP.  Refer to \fBIMAGE
ANNOTATION\fP for more details.
.TP 5
.B printCommand (\fIclass\fP PrintCommand)
This command is executed whenever \fBPrint\fP is issued (see \fBBUTTONS\fP.
In general, it is the command to print Postscript to your printer.
Default value: \fBlpr\fP.
.TP 5
.B title (\fIclass\fP Title)
This resource specifies the title to be used for the image window.  This
information is sometimes used by a window manager to provide a
header identifying the window.  The default is the image file name.
.TP 5
.B usePixmap (\fIclass\fP UsePixmap)
Images are maintained as a XImage by default.  Set this resource to True
to utilize a server Pixmap instead.  This option is useful if your image
exceeds the dimensions of your server screen and you intend to pan the
image.  Panning is much faster with Pixmaps than with a XImage.
Pixmaps are considered a precious resource, use them with discretion.
.SH IMAGE PANNING
When an image exceeds the width or height of the X server screen,
\fBdisplay\fP maps a small panning window.  The rectangle within the
panning window shows the area that is currently displayed in the
the image window.  To "pan" about the image, press and drag the mouse
within the panning window.  The panning rectangle moves with the mouse
and the image window is updated to reflect the location of the
rectangle within the panning window.  When you have selected the area
of the image you wish to view, just release the mouse button.

Use the arrow keys to pan the image one pixel up, down, left, or right within
the image window.

The panning window goes away if the image becomes smaller than the
dimensions of the X server screen.

If you force the panning window to withdraw, the image is restored to
its original size.
.SH IMAGE CROPPING
To begin, press button 1 and choose \fIClip\fP from the command menu
(see \fBBUTTONS\fP).  Alternatively, press \fIc\fP in the image window
(see \fBKEYBOARD ACCELERATORS\fP).  To exit immediately, press
\fIESC\fP.

A small window appears showing the location of the cursor in the image
window.  You are now in \fIclip mode\fP.  To exit immediately,
press \fIESC\fP.

To define a clipping region, press button 1 and drag.  The clipping
region is defined by a highlighted rectangle that expands or contracts
as it follows the pointer.  Once you are satisfied with the clipping region,
release the button.  You can make adjustments to the clipping rectangle
with the arrow keys.  Press an arrow key to expand the region by one
pixel.  Press \fBALT\fP and an arrow key to contract the clipping
region.

Finally, press \fIRETURN\fP to commit your clipping region.  To exit without
cropping the image, press \fIESC\fP.
.SH IMAGE CUTTING
An image is cut interactively.  There is no command line argument to
cut an image.  To begin, press button 1 and choose \fICut\fP from the
image edit menu (see \fBBUTTONS\fP).  Alternatively, press \fIx\fP in
the image window (see \fBKEYBOARD ACCELERATORS\fP).  To exit
immediately, press \fIESC\fP.
.PP
You are now in \fIcut mode\fP.  To exit immediately, press \fIESC\fP.
In \fIcut mode\fP a button press has a different effect than described
in \fBBUTTONS\fP.  Press a button to affect this behavior:
.TP 5
.B "1"
Select a location within the image window to begin your cut, press and hold.
Next, move the pointer to another location in the image.  As you move a
line will connect the initial location and the pointer.  When you
release the button, the area within the image to cut is determined by 
which cut direction you choose with button 2.
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press and drag to select a cut operator from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these cut operators:

    horizontal
    vertical
.PP
If the operator is \fBhorizontal\fP, the area of the image between
the two horizontal endpoints of the cut line is removed.  Otherwise, the area
of the image between the two vertical endpoints of the cut line is removed.
.PP
To cancel the image cutting, move the pointer back to the starting
point of the line and release the button.
.SH IMAGE ROTATION
Press the \fI/\fP key to rotate the image 90 degrees or \fI\\\fP to
rotate -90 degrees (see \fBKEYBOARD ACCELERATORS\fP).  To interactively
choose the degree of rotation, choose \fIRotate\fP from the image edit
menu (see \fBBUTTONS\fP).  Alternatively, press \fI|\fP in the image
window (see \fBKEYBOARD ACCELERATORS\fP). To exit immediately, press
any button in the image window twice.
.PP
A small horizontal line is drawn next to the pointer.  You are now in
\fIrotation mode\fP. To exit immediately, press any button and release.
In \fIrotation mode\fP a button press has a different
effect than described in \fBBUTTONS\fP.  Press a button to affect this
behavior:
.TP 5
.B "1"
Choose a point in the image window and press this button and hold.
Next, move the pointer to another location in the image.  As you move a
line connects the initial location and the pointer.  When you
release the button, the degree of image rotation is determined by the
slope of the line you just drew.
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press and drag to select a background color from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these background colors:

    black
    blue
    cyan
    green
    gray
    red
    magenta
    yellow
    white
    Browser...

Other background colors can be specified with the color browser or by setting
the X resources \fBpen1\fP through \fBpen9\fP.  Refer to \fBX RESOURCES\fP
for more details.

If you select the color browser and press \fBGrab\fP, you can choose the font
color by moving the pointer to the desired color on the screen and press any
button.
.PP
To cancel the image rotation, move the pointer back to the starting
point of the line and release the button.
.SH IMAGE ANNOTATION
An image is annotated with text interactively.  There is no command
line argument to annotate an image.  To begin, press button 1 and
choose \fIAnnotate\fP from the image edit menu (see \fBBUTTONS\fP).
Alternatively, press \fIa\fP in the image window (see \fBKEYBOARD
ACCELERATORS\fP).  To exit immediately, press \fIESC\fP.
.PP
A small window appears showing the location of the cursor in the image
window.  You are now in \fIannotate mode\fP.  To exit immediately,
press \fIESC\fP. In \fIannotate mode\fP a button press has a different
effect than described in \fBBUTTONS\fP.  Press a button to affect this
behavior:
.TP 5
.B "1"
Press to select a location within the image window to begin entering text.
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press and drag to select a font color from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these font colors:

    black
    blue
    cyan
    green
    gray
    red
    magenta
    yellow
    white
    Browser...

Other font colors can be specified with the color browser or by setting the X
resources \fBpen1\fP through \fBpen9\fP.  Refer to \fBX RESOURCES\fP
for more details.

If you select the color browser and press \fBGrab\fP, you can choose the font
color by moving the pointer to the desired color on the screen and press any
button.
.TP 5
.B "3"
Press and drag to select a font from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these fonts:

    fixed
    variable
    5x8
    6x10
    7x13bold
    8x13bold
    9x15bold
    10x20
    12x24
    Browser...

Other fonts can be specified with the font browser or by setting the X
resources \fBfont1\fP through \fBfont9\fP.  Refer to \fBX RESOURCES\fP
for more details.
.PP
Choosing a font and its color is optional.  The default font is
\fIfixed\fP and the default color is \fIblack\fP.  However, you must
choose a location to begin entering text and press button 1.  An
underscore character will appear at the location of the cursor where
you pressed button 1.  The cursor changes to a pencil to indicate
you are in \fItext mode\fP.  To exit immediately, press \fIESC\fP.
.PP
In \fItext mode\fP, any key presses will display the character at
the location of the underscore and advance the underscore cursor.
Enter your text and once completed press \fIESC\fP to finish your image
annotation.  To correct errors press \fIBACK SPACE\fP.  To delete an
entire line of text, press \fIDELETE\fP.  Any text that exceeds the
boundaries of the image window is automatically continued onto the next
line.
.PP
The actual color you request for the font is saved in the image.
However, the color that appears in your image window may be different.
For example, on a monochrome screen the text will appear black or white even
if you choose the color red as the font color.  However, the image saved to
a file with \fB-write\fP is written with red lettering.  To assure
the correct color text in the final image, any \fIPseudoClass\fP image
is promoted to \fIDirectClass\fP (see \fBmiff(5)\fP).  To
force a \fIPseudoClass\fP image to remain \fIPseudoClass\fP, use
\fB-colors\fP.
.SH IMAGE COMPOSITING
An image composite is created interactively.  There is no command line
argument to composite an image.  To begin, press button 1 and choose
\fIComposite Image\fP from the image edit menu (see \fBBUTTONS\fP).
Alternatively, press \fI*\fP in the image window (see \fBKEYBOARD
ACCELERATORS\fP).
.PP
First a popup window is displayed requesting you to enter an image name.  
Press \fIComposite\fP, enter 'X:', or type a file name.  Press \fICancel\fP
if you choose not to create a composite image.  When you specify \fBX:\fP
as your file name, the filename has special meaning.  It specifies an X
window by id, name, or \fBroot\fP.  If no name is specified, the
window is selected by clicking the mouse in the desired window.  See
\fBimport(1)\fP for details.
.PP
A small window appears showing the location of the cursor in the image
window.  You are now in \fIcomposite mode\fP.  To exit immediately,
press \fIESC\fP.  In \fIcomposite mode\fP a button press has a
different effect than described in \fBBUTTONS\fP.  Press a button to
affect this behavior: 
.TP 5
.B "1"
Press to select a location within \fIimage window\fP to composite your
image.
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press and drag to select a composite operation from a pop-up menu.
Choose from these composite operations:

    over
    in
    out
    atop
    xor
    plus
    minus
    add
    subtract
    difference
    replace
.PP
How each operator behaves is described below.  \fIimage window\fP is the image
currently displayed on your X server and \fIimage\fP is the image obtained with
the File Browser widget.
.TP 9
.B over
The result is the union of the two image shapes, with \fIimage\fP
obscuring \fIimage window\fP in the region of overlap.
.TP 9
.B in
The result is simply \fIimage\fP cut by the shape of \fIimage
window\fP.  None of the image data of \fIimage window\fP is in the
result.
.TP 9
.B out
The resulting image is \fIimage\fP with the shape of \fIimage window\fP
cut out.
.TP 9
.B atop
The result is the same shape as image \fIimage window\fP, with
\fIimage\fP obscuring \fIimage window\fP where the image shapes
overlap.  Note this differs from \fBover\fP because the portion of
\fIimage\fP outside \fIimage window\fP's shape does not appear in the
result.
.TP 9
.B xor
The result is the image data from both \fIimage\fP and \fIimage window\fP
that is outside the overlap region.  The overlap region is blank.
.TP 9
.B plus
The result is just the sum of the image data.  Output values are
clipped to 255 (no overflow).  This operation is independent
of the matte channels.
.TP 9
.B minus
The result of \fIimage\fP \- \fIimage window\fP, with underflow clipped
to zero.  The matte channel is ignored (set to 255, full coverage).
.TP 9
.B add
The result of \fIimage\fP + \fIimage window\fP, with overflow wrapping
around (\fImod\fP 256).
.TP 9
.B subtract
The result of \fIimage\fP - \fIimage window\fP, with underflow wrapping
around (\fImod\fP 256).  The \fBadd\fP and \fBsubtract\fP operators can
be used to perform reversible transformations.
.TP 9
.B difference
The result of abs(\fIimage\fP \- \fIimage window\fP).  This is useful
for comparing two very similar images.
.TP 9
.B replace
The resulting image is \fIimage window\fP replaced with \fIimage\fP.
Here the matte information is ignored.
.PP
The image compositor requires a matte, or alpha channel in the image
for some operations.  This extra channel usually defines a mask which
represents a sort of a cookie-cutter for the image.  This is the case
when matte is 255 (full coverage) for pixels inside the shape, zero
outside, and between zero and 255 on the boundary.  If \fIimage\fP does
not have a matte channel, it is initialized with 0 for any pixel
matching in color to pixel location (0,0), otherwise 255.  See
\fBMATTE EDITING\fP for a method of defining a matte channel.
.PP
Note that matte information for \fIimage window\fP is not retained for
colormapped X server visuals (e.g. \fIStaticColor\fP,
\fIStaticColor\fP, \fIGrayScale\fP, \fIPseudoColor\fP).  Correct
compositing behavior may require a \fITrueColor\fP or \fIDirectColor\fP
visual or a \fIStandard Colormap\fP.
.PP
Choosing a composite operator is optional.  The default operator is
\fIover\fP.  However, you must choose a location to composite your image
and press button 1.  Press and hold button 1 before releasing and an
outline of the image will appear to help you identify your location.
.PP
The actual colors of the composite image is saved.  However, the color
that appears in \fIimage window\fP may be different.  For example, on a
monochrome screen \fIimage window\fP will appear black or white even
though your composited image may have many colors.  If the image is
saved to a file it is written with the correct colors.  To assure the
correct colors are saved in the final image, any \fIPseudoClass\fP
image is promoted to \fIDirectClass\fP (see \fBmiff(5)\fP).  To force a
\fIPseudoClass\fP image to remain \fIPseudoClass\fP, use \fB-colors\fP.
.SH COLOR EDITING
Changing the the color of a set of pixels is performed
interactively.  There is no command line argument to edit a pixel.  To
begin, press button 1 and choose \fIImage Edit\fP from the command menu
(see \fBBUTTONS\fP).  Alternatively, press \fIe\fP in the image window
(see \fBKEYBOARD ACCELERATORS\fP).  To exit immediately, press
\fIESC\fP.
.PP
A small window appears showing the location of the cursor in the image
window.  You are now in \fIpixel edit mode\fP.  To exit immediately,
press \fIESC\fP. In \fIpixel edit mode\fP a button press has a different
effect than described in \fBBUTTONS\fP.  Press a button to affect this
behavior:
.TP 5
.B "1"
Press to select a pixel within the image window to change its color.
Any pixel within the image that matches the color of the selected pixel is
recolored. 
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press and drag to select a pixel color from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these pixel colors:

    black
    blue
    cyan
    green
    gray
    red
    magenta
    yellow
    white
    Browser...

Other pixel colors are specified with the color browser or by setting the X
resources \fBpen1\fP through \fBpen9\fP.  Refer to \fBX RESOURCES\fP
for more details.
.TP 5
.B "3"
Press and drag to select a delta factor from a pop-up menu.  Choose from
these delta factor:

    0
    2
    4
    8
    16
    32
    64
    Dialog...

The delta factor you choose creates a range of colors that are
considered candidates for recoloring.  The factor is added then
subtracted from each color component of the pixel you choose with button
1.  Any pixel within the image that falls in this range is recolored.
.PP
The actual color you request for the pixels is saved in the image.
However, the color that appears in your image window may be different.
For example, on a monochrome screen the pixel will appear black or white even
if you choose the color red as the font color.  However, the image saved to
a file with \fB-write\fP is written with red pixels.  To assure
the correct color text in the final image, any \fIPseudoClass\fP image
is promoted to \fIDirectClass\fP (see \fBmiff(5)\fP).  To
force a \fIPseudoClass\fP image to remain \fIPseudoClass\fP, use
\fB-colors\fP.
.SH MATTE EDITING
Matte information within an image is useful for some operations such as
image compositing (See \fBIMAGE COMPOSITING\fP).  This extra channel
usually defines a mask which represents a sort of a cookie-cutter for
the image.  This is the case when matte is 255 (full coverage) for
pixels inside the shape, zero outside, and between zero and 255 on the
boundary.

Setting the matte information in an image is done interactively.  There
is no command line argument to edit a pixel.  To begin, press button 1
and choose \fIMatte Edit\fP from the command menu (see \fBBUTTONS\fP).
Alternatively, press \fIe\fP in the image window (see \fBKEYBOARD
ACCELERATORS\fP).  To exit immediately, press \fIESC\fP.
.PP
A small window appears showing the location of the cursor in the image
window.  You are now in \fImatte edit mode\fP.  To exit immediately,
press \fIESC\fP. In \fImatte edit mode\fP a button press has a different
effect than described in \fBBUTTONS\fP.  Press a button to affect this
behavior:
.TP 5
.B "1"
Press to select a pixel within the image window to set it's matte value.
The matte value of any pixel within the image that matches the color of the
selected pixel is initialized.
.TP 5
.B "2"
Press an a dialog appears requesting a matte value.  Enter a value between
0 and 255.  This value is assigned as the matte value of the selected pixel
or pixels.
.PP
Matte information is only valid in a \fIDirectClass\fP image.
Therefore, any \fIPseudoClass\fP image is promoted to \fIDirectClass\fP
(see \fBmiff(5)\fP).  Note that matte information for \fIPseudoClass\fP
is not retained for colormapped X server visuals (e.g.
\fIStaticColor\fP, \fIStaticColor\fP, \fIGrayScale\fP,
\fIPseudoColor\fP) unless you immediatelysave your image to a file
(refer to \fBWrite\fP).  Correct matte editing behavior may require a
\fITrueColor\fP or \fIDirectColor\fP visual or a \fIStandard Colormap\fP. 
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 5
.B display
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
animate(1), import(1), montage(1), mogrify(1), convert(1), segment(1),
combine(1), xtp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The MIT X Consortium for making network transparent graphics a reality.
.PP
Rod Bogart and John W. Peterson, University of Utah.  Image
compositing is loosely based on \fIrlecomp\fP of the Utah Raster
Toolkit.
.PP
Michael Halle, Spatial Imaging Group at MIT, for the initial
implementation of Alan Paeth's image rotation algorithm.
.PP
David Pensak, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for providing a
computing environment that made this program possible.
.PP
Paul Raveling, USC Information Sciences Institute, for the original
idea of using space subdivision for the color reduction algorithm.
.SH AUTHORS
John Cristy, E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Incorporated
