.ad l
.nh
.TH ImageMagick 1 "10 April 1994" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
ImageMagick - ImageMagick is an X11 package for display and interactive
manipulation of images.
.SH DESCRIPTION
ImageMagick is an X11 package for display and interactive manipulation
of images.  The package includes tools for image conversion,
annotation, compositing, animation, and creating montages.  ImageMagick
can read and write many of the more popular image formats (e.g. JPEG,
TIFF, PNM, etc.).  ImageMagick is available via anonymous FTP as
\fBftp.x.org:contrib/applications/ImageMagick/ImageMagick-3.0.tar.gz\fP.
.PP
.TP 5
.B display
\fBDisplay\fP is a machine architecture independent image and display
program.  It can display an image on any workstation display
running an X server.  \fBDisplay\fP can read and write many of the more
popular image formats (e.g. JPEG, TIFF, PNM, etc.).  You can
perform these functions on the image:

    o display information about the image
    o write the image to a file
    o print the image to a Postscript printer
    o delete the image file
    o load an image from a file
    o display the next image
    o display the former image
    o undo last image transformation
    o restore the image to its original size
    o half the image size
    o double the image size
    o resize the image
    o trim the image edges
    o clip the image
    o cut the image
    o flop image in the horizontal direction
    o flip image in the vertical direction
    o rotate the image 90 degrees clockwise
    o rotate the image 90 degrees counter-clockwise
    o rotate the image
    o shear the image
    o invert the colors of the image
    o perform histogram equalization on the image
    o perform histogram normalization on the image
    o gamma correct the image
    o reduce the speckles within an image
    o eliminate peak noise from an image
    o detect edges within the image
    o convert the image to grayscale
    o set the maximum number of unique colors in the image
    o annotate the image with text
    o add a border to the image
    o composite image with another
    o edit an image pixel color
    o edit the image matte information
    o add an image comment
    o display information about this program
    o discard all images and exit program
    o change the level of magnification
.TP 5
.B import
Import reads an image from any visible window on an X server
and outputs it as an image file.  You can capture a single
window, the entire screen, or any rectangular portion of the
screen.  You can use display (see display(1)) utility for
redisplay, printing, editing, formatting, archiving, image
processing, etc. of the captured image.

The target window can be specified by id, name, or may be
selected by clicking the mouse in the desired window.  If
you press a button and then drag, a rectangle will form
which expands and contracts as the mouse moves.  To save the
portion of the screen  defined by the rectangle, just
release the button.  The keyboard bell is rung once at the
beginning of the screen capture and twice when it completes.
.TP 5
.B animate
Animate displays a sequence of images on any workstation
display running an X server.  Animate first determines the
hardware capabilities of the workstation.  If the number of
unique colors in an image is less than or equal to the
number the workstation can support, the image is displayed
in an X window.  Otherwise the number of colors in the image
is first reduced to match the color resolution of the
workstation before it is displayed.

This means that a continuous-tone 24 bits/pixel image can
display on a 8 bit pseudo-color device or monochrome device.
In most instances the reduced color image closely resembles
the original.  Alternatively, a monochrome or pseudo-color
image sequence can display on a continuous-tone 24
bits/pixels device.
.TP 5
.B montage
Montage creates a composite image by combining several
separate images.  The images are tiled on the composite
image with the name of the image optionally appearing just
below the individual tile.
.TP 5
.B mogrify
Mogrify transforms an image or a sequence of images.  These
transforms include image scaling, image rotation, color
reduction, and others.  The transmogrified image overwrites
the original image.
.TP 5
.B convert
Convert converts an input file using one image format to an
output file with a differing image format. By default, the
image format is determined by it's magic number. To specify
a particular image format, precede the filename with an
image format name and a colon (i.e.  ps:image) or specify
the image type as the filename suffix (i.e. image.ps).
Specify file as - for standard input or output.  If file has
the extension .Z, the file is decoded with uncompress.
.TP 5
.B combine
Combine combines images to create new images.
.TP 5
.B segment
Segment segments an image by analyzing the histograms of the
color components and identifying units that are homogeneous
with the fuzzy c-means technique.  The scale-space filter
analyzes the histograms of the three color components of the
image and identifies a set of classes.  The extents of each
class is used to coarsely segment the image with
thresholding.  The color associated with each class is
determined by the mean color of all pixels within the
extents of a particular class.  Finally, any unclassified
pixels are assigned to the closest class with the fuzzy c-
means technique.
.TP 5
.B XTP
Xtp is a utility for retrieving, listing, or printing files
from a remote network site, or sending files to a remote
network site.  Xtp performs most of the same functions as
the ftp program, but does not require any interactive
commands.  You simply specify the file transfer task on the
command line and xtp performs the task automatically.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
display(1), animate(1), import(1), montage(1), mogrify(1), convert(1),
segment(1), combine(1), xtp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH AUTHORS
John Cristy, E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Incorporated
