.ad l
.nh
.TH import 1 "1 May 1994" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
import - capture some or all of an X server screen and save the image to
a file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "import"
[ \fIoptions\fP ... ] \fIfile\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBimport\fP reads an image from any visible window on an X server and
outputs it as an image file.  You can capture a single window, the
entire screen, or any rectangular portion of the screen.  Use
\fBdisplay\fP (see \fBdisplay(1)\fP) for redisplay, printing, editing,
formatting, archiving, image processing, etc. of the captured image.
.PP
The target window can be specified by id, name, or may be selected by
clicking the mouse in the desired window.  If you press a button and
then drag, a rectangle will form which expands and contracts as
the mouse moves.  To save the portion of the screen  defined by the
rectangle, just release the button.  The keyboard bell is rung once at
the beginning of the screen capture and twice when it completes.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To select an X window with the mouse and save it in the MIFF image
format to a file titled window.miff, use:
.PP
.B
     import window.miff
.PP
To select an X window and save it in the Encapsulated Postscript format
to include in another document, use:
.PP
.B
     import figure.eps
.PP
To capture the entire X server screen in the JPEG image format in a file
titled root.jpeg, use:
.PP
.B
     import -window root root.jpeg
.SH OPTIONS
\fBimport\fP options can appear on the command line or in your X resources
file (see \fBX(1)\fP).  Options on the command line supersede values specified
in your X resources file.
.TP 5
.B "-border"
include image borders in the output image.
.TP 5
.B "-clip \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the clipped image.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.
 
Use clipping to crop a particular area of an image.   Use \fB-clip
0x0\fP to remove edges that are the background color.
.TP 5
.B "-colors \fIvalue\fP"
preferred number of colors in the image.
 
The actual number of colors in the image may be less than your request,
but never more.  Note, this is a color reduction option.  Images with
less unique colors than specified with this option will remain unchanged.
Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.
 
Note, options \fB-dither\fP, \fB-colorspace\fP, and \fB-treedepth\fP affect
the color reduction algorithm.
.TP 5
.B "-colorspace \fIvalue\fP"
the type of colorspace: \fBGRAY\fP, \fBOHTA\fP, \fBRGB\fP, \fBXYZ\fP,
\fBYCbCr\fP, \fBYIQ\fP, or \fBYUV\fP.
 
Color reduction, by default, takes place in the RGB color space.
Empirical evidence suggests that distances in color spaces such as YUV
or YIQ correspond to perceptual color differences more closely
than do distances in RGB space.  These color spaces may give better
results when color reducing an image.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for
more details.
 
The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required for this option
to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-comment \fIstring\fP"
annotate an image with a comment.

By default, each image is commented with its file name.  Use this
option to assign a specific comment to the image.  Optionally you can
include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene number by
embedding special format characters.  Embed \fB%f\fP for filename,
\fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width, \fB%h\fP for height, \fB%s\fP
for scene number, or \fB\\n\fP for newline.  For example,

.nf
     -comment "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi

produces an image comment of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.
 
If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image comment is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
.TP 5
.B "-compress \fItype\fP"
the type of image compression: \fIQEncoded\fP or \fIRunlengthEncoded\fP.
See \fBmiff(5)\fP for details.

Specify \fB\+compress\fP to store the binary image in an uncompressed format.
The default is the compression type of the specified image file.
.TP 5
.B "-delay \fIseconds\fP"
pause before selecting target window.

This option is useful when you need time to ready the target window before
it is captured to a file.
.TP 5
.B "-density \fI<width>x<height>
vertical and horizontal density of the image.

This option specifies an image density for a Postscript page.
The default is 72 dots per inch in the horizontal and vertical direction.
Use this option to alter the default density.
.TP 5
.B "-descend"
obtain image by descending window hierarchy.

This option reads each subwindow and its colormap of the chosen window.
The final image is guarenteed to have the correct colors but obtaining
the image is significantly slower.
.TP 5
.B "-display \fIhost:display[.screen]\fP"
specifies the X server to contact; see \fBX(1)\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-dither"
apply Floyd/Steinberg error diffusion to the image.
 
The basic strategy of dithering is to trade intensity resolution for
spatial resolution by averaging the intensities of several neighboring
pixels.  Images which suffer from severe contouring when reducing colors
can be improved with this option.
 
The \fB-colors\fP option is required for dithering to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-frame"
include window manager frame.
.TP 5
.B "-geometry \fI<width>{%}x<height>{%}{!}"
the width and height of the image.

By default, the width and height are maximum values.  That is, the
image is expanded or contracted to fit the width and height value while
maintaining the aspect ratio of the image.  Append an exclamation point
to the geometry to force the image size to exactly the size you
specify.  For example, if you specify \fB640x480!\fP the image width is
set to 640 pixels and height to 480.  If only one factor is
specified, both the width and height assume the value.
 
To specify a percentage width or height instead, append \fB%\fP.  The
image size is multiplied by the width and height percentages to obtain
the final image dimensions.  To increase the size of an image, use a
value greater than 100 (e.g. 125%).  To decrease an image's size, use a
percentage less than 100.

Use this option to specify the width and height of raw images whose
dimensions are unknown such as \fBGRAY\fP, \fBRGB\fP, and \fBCMYK\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-interlace \fItype\fP"
the type of interlacing scheme: \fBNONE\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBPLANE\fP.

This option is used to specify the type of interlacing scheme for raw
image formats such as \fBRGB\fP or \fBYUV\fP.  \fBNONE\fP means do not
interlace (RGBRGBRGBRGBRGBRGB...), \fBLINE\fP uses scanline
interlacing (RRR...GGG...BBB...RRR...GGG...BBB...), and \fBPLANE\fP uses
plane interlacing (RRRRRR...GGGGGG...BBBBBB...).
.B "-label \fIname\fP"
assign a label to an image.

Use this option to assign a specific label to the image.  Optionally
you can include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene
number in the label by embedding special format characters.   Embed
\fB%f\fP for filename, \fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width,
\fB%h\fP for height, or \fB%s\fP for scene number.  For example,
.nf
     -label "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi
produces an image label of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image label is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
 
When converting to Postscript, use this option to specify a header string
to print above the image.
.TP 5
.B "-monochrome"
transform image to black and white.
.TP 5
.B "-negate"
apply color inversion to image.
 
The red, green, and blue intensities of an image are negated.
.TP 5
.TP 5
.B "-page \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the Postscript page.

Use this option to specify the dimensions of the Postscript page in
picas or a TEXT page in pixels.  The default for a Postscript page is
to center the image on a letter page 612 by 792 dots per inch.  The
left and right margins are 18 picas and the top and bottom 94 picas
(i.e.  612x792+18+94).  Other common sizes are:

    540x720   Note
    612x1008  Legal
    842x1190  A3
    595x842   A4
    421x595   A5
    297x421   A6
    709x1002  B4
    612x936   U.S. Foolscap
    612x936   European Foolscap
    396x612   Half Letter
    792x1224  11x17
    1224x792  Ledger

The page geometry is relative to the vertical and horizontal density of the
Postscript page.  See \fB-density\fP for details.

The default page dimensions for a TEXT image is 612x792+36+36.
.TP 5
.B "-quality \fIvalue\fP"
JPEG quality setting.

Quality is 0 (worst) to 100 (best). The default is 85.
.TP 5
.B "-rotate \fIdegrees\fP"
apply Paeth image rotation to the image.

Empty triangles left over from rotating the image are filled with
the color defined as \fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).
See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-scene \fIvalue\fP"
image scene number.
.TP 5
.B "-screen"
This option indicates that the GetImage request used to obtain the image
should be done on the root window, rather than directly on the specified
window.  In this way, you can obtain pieces of other windows that overlap
the specified window, and more importantly, you can capture menus or other
popups that are independent windows but appear over the specified window.
.TP 5
.B "-treedepth \fIvalue\fP"
Normally, this integer value is zero or one.  A zero or one tells
\fBconvert\fP to choose a optimal tree depth for the color reduction
algorithm.
 
An optimal depth generally allows the best representation of the source
image with the fastest computational speed and the least amount of
memory.  However, the default depth is inappropriate for some images.
To assure the best representation, try values between 2 and 8 for this
parameter.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.
 
The \fB-colors\fP option is required for this option to take effect.
.TP 5
.B -verbose
print detailed information about the image.

This information is printed: image scene number;  image name;  image size;
the image class (\fIDirectClass\fP or \fIPseudoClass\fP);  the total
number of unique colors;  and the number of seconds to read and write the
image.
.TP 5
.B "-window \fIid\fP"
select window with this id or name.

With this option you can specify the target window by id or name rather
than using the mouse.  Specify 'root' to select X's root window as the
target window.
.PP
Change \fI-\fP to \fI+\fP in any option above to reverse its effect.  For
example \fB+frame\fP means do include window manager frame.
.PP
\fIfile\fP specifies the image filename.  By default, the image is
written in the Postscript image format.  To specify a particular image
format, precede the filename with an image format name and a colon
(i.e.  ps:image) or specify the image type as the filename suffix (i.e.
image.ps).  See \fBconvert(1)\fP for a list of valid image formats.
.PP
Specify \fIfile\fP as \fI-\fP for standard output.  If \fIfile\fP has
the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file size is compressed using
with \fBcompress\fP or \fBgzip\fP respectively.  Precede the image file
name \fI|\fP to pipe to a system command. If \fIfile\fP already exists,
you will be prompted as to whether it should be overwritten.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 5
.B display
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
display(1), animate(1), montage(1), mogrify(1), convert(1),
segment(1), combine(1), xtp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH AUTHORS
John Cristy, E.I. du Pont De Nemours and Company Incorporated
