.ad l
.nh
.TH montage 1 "1 May 1994" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
montage - creates a composite image by combining several separate images
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "montage" [ \fIoptions\fP ...] \fIfile\fP
[ [ \fIoptions\fP ...] \fIfile\fP ...] \fIoutput_file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmontage\fP creates a composite image by combining several separate images.
The images are tiled on the composite image with the name of the image
optionally appearing just below the individual tile.

The composite image is constructed in the following manner.  First,
each image specified on the command line, except for the last, is
scaled to fit the maximum tile size.  The maximum tile size by default
is 256x256.  It can be modified with the \fB-geometry\fP command line
argument or X resource.  See \fBOPTIONS\fP for more information on
command line arguments. See \fBX(1)\fP for more information on X
resources.  Note that the maximum tile size need not be a square.  To
respect the aspect ratio of each image append \fB~\fP to the geometry
specification.

Next the composite image is initialized with the color specified by the
\fP-background\fP command line argument or X resource.  The width and
height of the composite image is determined by the title specified,
the maximum tile size, the number of tiles per row, the tile border
width and height, the image border width, and the label height.  The
number of tiles per row specifies how many images are to appear in each
row of the composite image.  The default is to have an equal number of
images in each row and column of the composite.  A specific value is 
specified with \fB-tiles_per_row\fP.  The tile border width and height,
and the image border width defaults to the value of the X resource
\fB-borderwidth\fP.  It can be changed with the \fB-borderwidth\fP or
\fB-geometry\fP command line argument or X resource.  The label height
is determined by the font you specify with the \fB-font\fP command line
argument or X resource.  If you do not specify a font, a font is
choosen that allows the name of the image to fit the maximum width of a
tiled area.  The label colors is determined by the \fB-background\fP
and \fB-foreground\fP command line argument or X resource.  Note, that
if the background and foreground colors are the same, labels will not
appear.

Initially, the composite image title is placed at the top if one is
specified (refer to \fB-foreground\fP X resource).  Next, each image is
set onto the composite image, surrounded by its border color, with its
name centered just below it.  The individual images are left-justified
within the width of the tiled area.  The order of the images is the
same as they appear on the command line unless the images have a scene
keyword.  If a scene number is specified in each image, then the images
are tiled onto the composite in the order of their scene number.  Finally,
the last argument on the command line is the name assigned to the
composite image.  By default, the image is written in the \fBMIFF\fP format
and can be viewed or printed with \fBdisplay(1)\fP.
.SH EXAMPLES
To create a montage of a cockatoo, a parrot, and a hummingbird and write
it to a file called birds, use:
.PP
.B
     montage cockatoo.miff parrot.miff hummingbird.miff birds.miff
.PP
To tile several bird images so that they are at most 256 pixels in width and
192 pixels in height, surrounded by a red border, and separated by
10 pixels of background color, use:
.PP
.B
     montage -geometry 256x192+10+10 -bordercolor red birds.* montage.miff
.PP
To create an unlabeled parrot image, 640 by 480 pixels, and surrounded
by a border of black, use:
.PP
.B
     montage -geometry 640x480 -bordercolor black -label "" parrot.miff bird.miff
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-clip \fI<width>x<height>+<x offset>+<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the clipped image.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.

Use clipping to tile only a particular area of an image.  Use \fB-clip
0x0\fP to remove edges that are the background color.

The equivalent X resource for this option is \fBclipGeometry\fP
(class \fBClipGeometry\fP).  See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-colors \fIvalue\fP"
preferred number of colors in the image.

The actual number of colors in the image may be less than your request,
but never more.  Note, this is a color reduction option.  Images with
less unique colors than specified with this option will remain unchanged.
Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.

Note, options \fB-dither\fP, \fB-colorspace\fP, and \fB-treedepth\fP affect
the color reduction algorithm.
.TP 5
.B "-colorspace \fIvalue\fP"
the type of colorspace: \fBGRAY\fP, \fBOHTA\fP, \fBRGB\fP, \fBXYZ\fP,
\fBYCbCr\fP, \fBYIQ\fP, or \fBYUV\fP.
 
Color reduction, by default, takes place in the RGB color space.
Empirical evidence suggests that distances in color spaces such as YUV
or YIQ correspond to perceptual color differences more closely
than do distances in RGB space.  These color spaces may give better
results when color reducing an image.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for
more details.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required for this option
to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-comment \fIstring\fP"
annotate an image with a comment.

By default, each image is commented with its file name.  Use this
option to assign a specific comment to the image.  Optionally you can
include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene number by
embedding special format characters.  Embed \fB%f\fP for filename,
\fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width, \fB%h\fP for height, \fB%s\fP
for scene number, or \fB\\n\fP for newline.  For example,

.nf
     -comment "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi

produces an image comment of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image comment is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
.TP 5
.B "-compose \fIoperator\fP"
the type of image composition.

By default, each of the composite image pixels are replaced by the
corresponding image tile pixel. You can choose an alternate composite
operation:

    over
    in
    out
    atop
    xor
    plus
    minus
    add
    subtract
    difference
    replace
.PP
The operations behaves as follows:
.TP 9
.B over
The result will be the union of the two image shapes, with \fIimage\fP
obscuring \fIcomposite image\fP in the region of overlap.
.TP 9
.B in
The result is simply \fIimage\fP cut by the shape of \fIimage
window\fP.  None of the image data of \fIcomposite image\fP will be in the
result.
.TP 9
.B out
The resulting image is \fIimage\fP with the shape of \fIcomposite image\fP
cut out.
.TP 9
.B atop
The result is the same shape as image \fIcomposite image\fP, with
\fIimage\fP obscuring \fIcomposite image\fP where the image shapes
overlap.  Note this differs from \fBover\fP because the portion of
\fIimage\fP outside \fIcomposite image\fP's shape does not appear in the
result.
.TP 9
.B xor
The result is the image data from both \fIimage\fP and \fIcomposite image\fP
that is outside the overlap region.  The overlap region will be blank.
.TP 9
.B plus
The result is just the sum of the image data.  Output values are
clipped to 255 (no overflow).  This operation is independent
of the matte channels.
.TP 9
.B minus
The result of \fIimage\fP \- \fIcomposite image\fP, with underflow clipped
to zero.  The matte channel is ignored (set to 255, full coverage).
.TP 9
.B add
The result of \fIimage\fP + \fIcomposite image\fP, with overflow wrapping
around (\fImod\fP 256).
.TP 9
.B subtract
The result of \fIimage\fP - \fIcomposite image\fP, with underflow wrapping
around (\fImod\fP 256).  The \fBadd\fP and \fBsubtract\fP operators can
be used to perform reversible transformations.
.TP 9
.B difference
The result of abs(\fIimage\fP \- \fIcomposite image\fP).  This is useful
for comparing two very similar images.
.TP 9
.B replace
The resulting image is \fIcomposite image\fP replaced with \fIimage\fP.
Here the matte information is ignored.

The image compositor requires an matte, or alpha channel in the image
for some operations.  This extra channel usually defines a mask which
represents a sort of a cookie-cutter for the image.  This is the case
when matte is 255 (full coverage) for pixels inside the shape, zero
outside, and between zero and 255 on the boundary.  If \fIimage\fP does
not have an matte channel, it is initialized with 0 for any pixel
matching in color to pixel location (0,0), otherwise 255 (to work
properly \fBborderwidth\fP must be 0).
.TP 5
.B "-compress \fItype\fP"
the type of image compression: \fIQEncoded\fP or \fIRunlengthEncoded\fP.

This option specifies the type of image compression for the composite
image.  See \fBmiff(5)\fP for details.

Specify \fB\+compress\fP to store the binary image in an uncompressed format.
The default is the compression type of the specified image file.
.TP 5
.B "-density \fI<width>x<height>
vertical and horizontal density of the image.

This option specifies an image density for a Postscript page.
The default is 72 dots per inch in the horizontal and vertical direction.
Use this option to alter the default density.
.TP 5
.B "-display \fIhost:display[.screen]\fP"
specifies the X server to contact; see \fBX(1)\fP.

Specify \fB+display\fP if an X server is not available.  The label font
is obtained from the X server.  If none is available, the composite image
will not have labels.
.TP 5
.B "-dither"
apply Floyd/Steinberg error diffusion to the image.

The basic strategy of dithering is to trade intensity resolution for
spatial resolution by averaging the intensities of several neighboring
pixels.  Images which suffer from severe contouring when reducing colors
can be improved with this option.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required
for this option to take effect.
.TP 5
.B "-frame"
surround image with an ornamental border.

Specify the width of the matte with \fB-borderwidth\fP.  Use
\fB-gravity\fP to specify how the image is oriented within the
ornamental border.  Use \fB-mattecolor\fP to specify the frame color.
.TP 5
.B "-gamma \fIvalue\fP"
level of gamma correction.

The same color image displayed on two different workstations may look
different due to differences in the display monitor.  Use gamma
correction to adjust for this color difference.  Reasonable values
extend from 0.8 to 2.3.


You can apply separate gamma values to the red, green, and blue
channels of the image with a gamma value list delineated with commas
(i.e. 1.7,2.3,1.2).
.TP 5
.B "-geometry \fI<width>x<height>+<border width>+<border height>{!}\fP"
preferred tile and border size of each tile of the composite image.

By default, the width and height are maximum values.  That is, the
image is expanded or contracted to fit the width and height value while
maintaining the aspect ratio of the image.  Append an exclamation point
to the geometry to force the image size to exactly the size you
specify.  For example, if you specify \fB640x480!\fP the image width is
set to 640 pixels and height to 480.  If only one factor is
specified, both the width and height assume the value.
 
Each image is surrounded by a border whose size in pixels is specified
as \fI<border width>\fP and \fI<border height>\fP and whose color is
the background color.  By default, the tile size is 256x256 and there is no
border.

The equivalent X resource for this option is \fBimageGeometry\fP
(class \fBImageGeometry\fP).  See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-gravity \fIdirection\fP"
direction image gravitates to within a tile.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the gravity specification.

A tile of the composite image is a fixed width and height.  However,
the image within the tile may not fill it completely (see
\fB-aspect_ratio\fP).  The direction you specify indicates where to
position the image within the tile.  For example \fICenter\fP gravity
forces the image to be centered within the tile.  By default, the image
gravity is \fINorth\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-interlace \fItype\fP"
the type of interlacing scheme: \fBNONE\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBPLANE\fP.

This option is used to specify the type of interlacing scheme for raw
image formats such as \fBRGB\fP or \fBYUV\fP.  \fBNONE\fP means do not
interlace (RGBRGBRGBRGBRGBRGB...), \fBLINE\fP uses scanline
interlacing (RRR...GGG...BBB...RRR...GGG...BBB...), and \fBPLANE\fP uses
plane interlacing (RRRRRR...GGGGGG...BBBBBB...).
.TP 5
.B "-label \fIname\fP"
assign a label to an image.

By default, each image is labeled with its file name.  Use this option
to assign a specific label to the image.  Optionally you can include
the image filename, type, width, height, or scene number in the label
by embedding special format characters.   Embed \fB%f\fP for filename,
\fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width, \fB%h\fP for height, or
\fB%s\fP for scene number.  For example,
.nf
     -label "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi
produces an image label of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image label is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
.TP 5
.B "-monochrome"
transform the image to black and white.
.TP 5
.B "-page \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the Postscript page.

Use this option to specify the dimensions of the Postscript page in
picas or a TEXT page in pixels.  The default for a Postscript page is
to center the image on a letter page 612 by 792 dots per inch.  The
left and right margins are 18 picas and the top and bottom 94 picas
(i.e.  612x792+18+94).  Other common sizes are:

    540x720   Note
    612x1008  Legal
    842x1190  A3
    595x842   A4
    421x595   A5
    297x421   A6
    709x1002  B4
    612x936   U.S. Foolscap
    612x936   European Foolscap
    396x612   Half Letter
    792x1224  11x17
    1224x792  Ledger

The page geometry is relative to the vertical and horizontal density of the
Postscript page.  See \fB-density\fP for details.

The default page dimensions for a TEXT image is 612x792+36+36.
.TP 5
.B "-quality \fIvalue\fP"
JPEG quality setting.

Quality is 0 (worst) to 100 (best). The default is 85.
.TP 5
.B "-rotate \fIdegrees\fP"
apply Paeth image rotation to the image.

Empty triangles left over from rotating the image are filled with
the color defined as \fBbordercolor\fP (class \fBborderColor\fP).
See \fBX(1)\fP for details.
.TP 5
.B "-scene \fIvalue\fP"
image scene number.
.TP 5
.B "-tiles_per_row \fIvalue\fP"
specifies how many images are to appear in each row of the composite image.
The default is to have an equal number of images in each row and column of
the composite.
.TP 5
.B "-treedepth \fIvalue\fP"
Normally, this integer value is zero or one.  A zero or one tells
\fBmontage\fP to choose a optimal tree depth for the color reduction
algorithm.

An optimal depth generally allows the best representation of the source
image with the fastest computational speed and the least amount of
memory.  However, the default depth is inappropriate for some images.
To assure the best representation, try values between 2 and 8 for this
parameter.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for more details.

The \fB-colors\fP or \fB-monochrome\fP option is required for this option
to take effect.
.TP 5
.B -verbose
print detailed information about the image.
 
This information is printed: image scene number;  image name;  image size;
the image class (\fIDirectClass\fP or \fIPseudoClass\fP);  the total
number of unique colors;  and the number of seconds to read and write the
image.
.PP
In addition to those listed above, you can specify these standard X
resources as command line options:  -background, -bordercolor, -borderwidth,
-font, -foreground, -mattecolor, or -title.
See \fBX RESOURCES\fP for details.
.PP
Any option you specify on the command line remains in effect until it is
explicitly changed by specifying the option again with a different effect.
For example, to montage two images, the first with 32 colors and the
second with only 16 colors, use:
.PP
     montage -colors 32 cockatoo.1 -colors 16 cockatoo.2 cockatoo.miff
.PP
Change \fI-\fP to \fI\+\fP in any option above to reverse its effect.
For example, specify \fB\+dither\fP to not apply error diffusion to an
image.
.PP
By default, the image format is determined by its magic number. To
specify a particular image format, precede the filename with an image
format name and a colon (i.e. ps:image) or specify the image type as
the filename suffix (i.e. image.ps).  See \fBconvert(1)\fP for a list
of valid image formats.
.PP
When you specify \fBX\fP as your image type, the filename has special
meaning.  It specifies an X window by id, name, or \fBroot\fP.  If no
filename is specified, the window is selected by clicking the mouse in
the desired window.
.PP
Specify \fIfile\fP as \fI-\fP for standard input, \fIoutput_file\fP as
\fI-\fP for standard output.  If \fIfile\fP has the extension \fB.Z\fP
or \fB.gz\fP, the file is uncompressed with \fBuncompress\fP or
\fBgunzip\fP respectively.  If \fIoutput_file\fP has the extension
\fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file size is compressed using with
\fBcompress\fP or \fBgzip\fP respectively.  Finally, precede the image
file name with \fI|\fP to pipe to or from a system command.  If
\fIoutput_file\fP already exists, you will be prompted as to whether it
should be overwritten.
.PP
Note, a composite MIFF image displayed to an X server with
\fBdisplay\fP behaves differently than other images.  You can think of
the composite as a visual image directory.  Choose a particular tile of
the composite and press a button to display it.  See \fBdisplay(1)\fP
and \fBmiff(5)\fP for details.
.SH "X RESOURCES"
\fBmontage\fP options can appear on the command line or in your X
resource file.  Options on the command line supersede values specified
in your X resource file.  See \fBX(1)\fP for more information on X
resources.

All \fBmontage\fP options have a corresponding X resource.  In addition,
\fBmontage\fP uses the following X resources:
.TP 5
.B background (\fPclass\fB Background)
Specifies the preferred color to use for the composite image background.  The
default is white.
.TP 5
.B borderColor (\fPclass\fB BorderColor)
Specifies the preferred color to use for the composite image border.  The
default is black.
.TP 5
.B borderWidth (\fPclass\fB BorderWidth)
Specifies the width in pixels of the composite image border.  The default is 2.
.TP 5
.B font (\fPclass\fB Font)
Specifies the name of the preferred font to use when displaying text
within the composite image.  The default is 9x15, fixed, or 5x8 determined by
the composite image size.
.TP 5
.B foreground (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies the preferred color to use for text within the composite image.  The
default is black.
.TP 5
.B matteColor (\fPclass\fB MatteColor)
Specify the color of an image frame.  A 3D  effect  is achieved  by
using highlight and shadow colors derived from this color.  Default
value: #bcd.
.TP 5
.B title (\fPclass\fB Title)
This resource specifies the title to be placed at the top of the composite 
image.  The default is not to place a title at the top of the composite image.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 5
.B display
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
display(1), animate(1), import(1), mogrify(1), convert(1),
segment(1), combine(1), xtp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The MIT X Consortium for making network transparent graphics a reality.
.PP
Michael Halle, Spatial Imaging Group at MIT, for the initial
implementation of Alan Paeth's image rotation algorithm.
.PP
David Pensak, E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, for providing a
computing environment that made this program possible.
.PP
Paul Raveling, USC Information Sciences Institute, for the original
idea of using space subdivision for the color reduction algorithm.
.SH AUTHORS
John Cristy, E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company Incorporated
