.ad l
.nh
.TH segment 1 "10 April 1993" "ImageMagick"
.SH NAME
segment - segments an image with thresholding and the fuzzy c-Means
technique.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "segment"
[ \fIoptions\fP ... ] \fIinput_file\fP \fIoutput_file\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsegment\fP segments an image by analyzing the histograms of the color
components and identifying units that are homogeneous with the fuzzy c-means
technique.  The scale-space filter analyzes the histograms of the three
color components of the image and identifies a set of classes.  The
extents of each class is used to coarsely segment the image with
thresholding.  The color associated with each class is determined by
the mean color of all pixels within the extents of a particular class.
Finally, any unclassified pixels are assigned to the closest class with
the fuzzy c-means technique.
.PP
The fuzzy c-Means algorithm can be summarized as follows:
.RS
.LP
o Build a histogram, one for each color component of the image.
.LP
o For each histogram, successively apply the scale-space filter and
build an interval tree of zero crossings in the second derivative at
each scale.  Analyze this scale-space ``fingerprint'' to determine
which peaks or valleys in the histogram are most predominant.
.LP
o The fingerprint defines intervals on the axis of the histogram.  Each
interval contains either a minima or a maxima in the original signal.
If each color component lies within the maxima interval, that pixel is
considered ``classified'' and is assigned an unique class number.
.LP
o Any pixel that fails to be classified in the above thresholding pass is
classified using the fuzzy c-Means technique.  It is assigned to one
of the classes discovered in the histogram analysis phase.
.RE
.PP
The fuzzy c-Means technique attempts to cluster a pixel by finding the local
minima of the generalized within group sum of squared error objective
function.  A pixel is assigned to the closest class of which the fuzzy
membership has a maximum value.

For additional information see
.IP
Young Won Lim, Sang Uk Lee, "On The Color Image Segmentation Algorithm Based
on the Thresholding and the Fuzzy c-Means Techniques", Pattern Recognition,
Volume 23, Number 9, pages 935-952, 1990.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To segment an image of a cockatoo, use:
.PP
.B
     segment cockatoo.miff cockatoo.segmented
.PP
To segment a raw grayscale image, use:
.PP
.B
     segment -geometry 768x512 gray:raw image.miff
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
.B "-cluster_threshold \fIvalue\fP"
eliminate clusters that are insignificant.

The number of pixels in each cluster must exceed the the cluster
threshold to be considered valid.  The default is 1%.
.TP 5
.B "-colorspace \fIvalue\fP"
the type of colorspace: \fBGRAY\fP, \fBOHTA\fP, \fBRGB\fP, \fBXYZ\fP,
\fBYCbCr\fP, \fBYIQ\fP, or \fBYUV\fP.

Color reduction, by default, takes place in the RGB color space.
Empirical evidence suggests that distances in color spaces such as YUV
or YIQ correspond to perceptual color differences more closely
than do distances in RGB space.  These color spaces may give better
results when color reducing an image.  Refer to \fBquantize(9)\fP for
more details.
.TP 5
.B "-comment \fIstring\fP"
annotate an image with a comment.

By default, each image is commented with its file name.  Use this
option to assign a specific comment to the image.  Optionally you can
include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene number by
embedding special format characters.  Embed \fB%f\fP for filename,
\fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width, \fB%h\fP for height, \fB%s\fP
for scene number, or \fB\\n\fP for newline.  For example,

.nf
     -comment "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi

produces an image comment of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image comment is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
.TP 5
.B "-compress \fItype\fP"
the type of image compression: \fIQEncoded\fP or \fIRunlengthEncoded\fP.

Specify \fB\+compress\fP to store the binary image in an uncompressed format.
The default is the compression type of the specified image file.
.TP 5
.B "-density \fI<width>x<height>
vertical and horizontal density of the image.

This option specifies an image density for a Postscript page.
The default is 72 dots per inch in the horizontal and vertical direction.
Use this option to alter the default density.
.TP 5
.B "-display \fIhost:display[.screen]\fP"
specifies the X server to contact; see \fBX(1)\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-font \fIname\fP"
This option specifies the font to be used  for displaying normal text.
The default is \fBfixed\fP.
.TP 5
.B "-geometry \fI<width>{%}x<height>{%}{!}"
the width and height of the image.  See \fBX(1)\fP for details
about the geometry specification.

By default, the width and height are maximum values.  That is, the
image is expanded or contracted to fit the width and height value while
maintaining the aspect ratio of the image.  Append an exclamation point
to the geometry to force the image size to exactly the size you
specify.  For example, if you specify \fB640x480!\fP the image width is
set to 640 pixels and height to 480.  If only one factor is
specified, both the width and height assume the value.
 
To specify a percentage width or height instead, append \fB%\fP.  The
image size is multiplied by the width and height percentages to obtain
the final image dimensions.  To increase the size of an image, use a
value greater than 100 (e.g. 125%).  To decrease an image's size, use a
percentage less than 100.

If the specified image size is smaller than the actual image size, the
image is first reduced to an integral of the specified image size with
an antialias digital filter.  The image is then scaled to the exact
specified image size with pixel replication.  If the specified image
size is greater than the actual image size, the image is first enlarged
to an integral of the specified image size with bilinear
interpolation.  The image is then scaled to the exact specified image
size with pixel replication.

Use this option to specified the width and height of raw images whose
dimensions are unknown such as \fBGRAY\fP, \fBRGB\fP, and \fBCMYK\fP.
This option can also change the default 8.5 by 11 width and height of
the Postscript canvas.
.TP 5
.B "-interlace \fItype\fP"
the type of interlacing scheme: \fBNONE\fP, \fBLINE\fP, or \fBPLANE\fP.

This option is used to specify the type of interlacing scheme for raw
image formats such as \fBRGB\fP or \fBYUV\fP.  \fBNONE\fP means do not
interlace (RGBRGBRGBRGBRGBRGB...), \fBLINE\fP uses scanline
interlacing (RRR...GGG...BBB...RRR...GGG...BBB...), and \fBPLANE\fP uses
plane interlacing (RRRRRR...GGGGGG...BBBBBB...).
.TP 5
.B "-label \fIname\fP"
assign a label to an image.

Use this option to assign a specific label to the image.  Optionally
you can include the image filename, type, width, height, or scene
number in the label by embedding special format characters.   Embed
\fB%f\fP for filename, \fB%m\fP for magick, \fB%w\fP for width,
\fB%h\fP for height, or \fB%s\fP for scene number.  For example,
.nf
     -label "%m:%f %wx%h"
.fi
produces an image label of \fBMIFF:bird.miff 512x480\fP for an image
titled \fBbird.miff\fP and whose width is 512 and height is 480.

If the first character of \fIstring\fP is \fB@\fP, the image label is read
from a file titled by the remaining characters in the string.
 
When converting to Postscript, use this option to specify a header string
to print above the image.
.TP 5
.B "-matte"
store matte channel if the image has one.
.TP 5
.B "-page \fI<width>x<height>{\+-}<x offset>{\+-}<y offset>\fP"
preferred size and location of the Postscript page.

Use this option to specify the dimensions of the Postscript page in
picas or a TEXT page in pixels.  The default for a Postscript page is
to center the image on a letter page 612 by 792 dots per inch.  The
left and right margins are 18 picas and the top and bottom 94 picas
(i.e.  612x792+18+94).  Other common sizes are:

    540x720   Note
    612x1008  Legal
    842x1190  A3
    595x842   A4
    421x595   A5
    297x421   A6
    709x1002  B4
    612x936   U.S. Foolscap
    612x936   European Foolscap
    396x612   Half Letter
    792x1224  11x17
    1224x792  Ledger

The page geometry is relative to the vertical and horizontal density of the
Postscript page.  See \fB-density\fP for details.

The default page dimensions for a TEXT image is 612x792+36+36.
.TP 5
.B "-quality \fIvalue\fP"
JPEG quality setting.

Quality is 0 (worst) to 100 (best). The default is 85.
.TP 5
.B "-scene \fIvalue\fP"
image scene number.
.TP 5
.B "-smoothing_threshold \fIvalue\fP"
eliminate noise in the second derivative of the histogram.

As the value is increased, you can expect a smoother second derivative.  The
default is 5.0.
.TP 5
.B -verbose
print detailed information about the image.

This information is printed: image scene number;  image name;  converted
image name;  image size;  the image class (\fIDirectClass\fP or 
\fIPseudoClass\fP);  the total number of unique colors;  and the number
of seconds to read and convert the image.
.PP
Change '-' to '+' in any option above to reverse its effect.  For
example, specify +matte to store the image without its matte channel.
.PP
By default, the image format is determined by its magic number. To
specify a particular image format, precede the filename with an image
format name and a colon (i.e. ps:image) or specify the image type as
the filename suffix (i.e. image.ps).  See \fBconvert(1)\fP for a list
of valid image formats.
.PP
When you specify \fBX\fP as your image type, the filename has special
meaning.  It specifies an X window by id, name, or \fBroot\fP.  If no
filename is specified, the window is selected by clicking the mouse in
the desired window.
.PP
Specify \fIinput_file\fP as \fI-\fP for standard input,
\fIoutput_file\fP as \fI-\fP for standard output.  If \fIinput_file\fP
has the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file is uncompressed with
\fBuncompress\fP or \fBgunzip\fP respectively.  If \fIoutput_file\fP
has the extension \fB.Z\fP or \fB.gz\fP, the file size is compressed
using with \fBcompress\fP or \fBgzip\fP respectively.  Finally, precede
the image file name with \fI|\fP to pipe to or from a system command.
If \fIoutput_file\fP already exists, you will be prompted as to whether
it should be overwritten.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 5
.B display
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
display(1), animate(1), import(1), montage(1), mogrify(1), convert(1),
combine(1), xtp(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Andy Gallo, University of Delaware.  This software is strongly based on
software Andy wrote.
.SH AUTHORS
John Cristy, E.I. du Pont De Nemours and Company Incorporated
