Everything in this workInProgress hierarchy represents a work in progress
of the X Consortium.

Fresco, Low Bandwidth X (LBX), the Record extension, and the X Keyboard
extension (Xkb, which logically belongs here but was too tightly coupled
into Xlib and the server to extract) are neither standards nor draft
standards of the X Consortium, are known to need design and/or implementation
work and are still evolving, and will not be compatible with any final
standard should such a standard eventually be agreed upon.  (However, we
hope that what is provided for the X Keyboard extension will differ very
little from an eventual standard.)  We are making them available in early
form in order to gather broader experimentation and feedback from those
willing to invest the time and energy, to help us produce better standards.

Any use of these interfaces in commercial products runs the risk of
later source and binary incompatibilities.  We strongly recommend against
anyone incorporating LBX in particular into a product until a standard is
produced.

MTXserver represents a snapshot of work to implement a particular design
for a multi-threaded X server.  The sources here include only files that
were changed from the single-threaded server.  Unfortunately, the
single-threaded server sources have continued to evolve since this
snapshot of the MTXserver was produced, so there is work to be done to
get the MTXserver sources back into a state where they can be compiled.

The session manager, xsm, simply needs more work before we would want
people to depend on it or use it as a good example of how to implement
the session protocol.
