.TH XBUFFY 1 4/20/94
.uc 4.2
.SH NAME
xbuffy \- yet another biff for the X Window System
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xbuffy  
[X toolkit options] [-help] [-version] [-horiz]
[-poll \fIseconds\fR]  [-header \fIseconds\fR] 
[-acmd \fIsound file\fR]  [-nobeep] [-names] [-orig]
[-priority \fIpriority\fR]
[-command \fIcommand\fR] [-shortnames] 
[-mail <mailbox files...>] 
[-news <newsgroup names...>]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Xbuffy is based on Xmultibiff by John Reardon. 

Xbuffy keeps track of multiple mailboxes.  You can
either specify mailbox files on the command line, in a
Xresources file, in a text configuration file, or set your 
MAILPATH environment variable (a colon separated list of 
files).  It will display the number of new messages in each 
mail file in a box.

Another key feature of xbuffy is that it will use NNTP
to watch newsgroups in the same way it watches mailboxes.
You can also specify newsgroups on the command line, in 
Xresources, in a text configuration file (the same file 
can specify both mailboxes and newsboxes), or set your 
NEWSPATH environment variable using the same format as 
the MAILPATH environment variable.

By specifying certain command line options and/or
Xresources, xbuffy can show the From and Subject lines in 
each box.  It can also invoke shell commands on button 
clicks.  Each box can be configured differently by using 
a \fIboxfile.\fR  In general, it is a very extensible biff.  
Read on for details on what it can do.

.SH OPTIONS
The following options are recognized:
.TP 10
.B -help
Print a brief help message and exit
.TP
.B -version
Print the current version and exit
.TP
.B -poll \fIsecs\fR
How often the mailbox files are polled for new mail.  If this is not
specified, it will use the \fBMAILCHECK\fR environment variable.
.I(default: 60)
.TP
.B -header \fIsecs\fR
This will display the \fBFrom:\fR and \fBSubject:\fR
lines from incoming mail messages in a popup window
when button 1 is pressed in the box label.  The mail
header will also popup automatically for the amount of
time indicated in \fIsecs\fR when new mail arrives.  If
\fIsecs\fR is 0, the mail header will not pop up when
new mail arrives.  Clicking in the popup window when mail
arrives (if the argument is non-zero) will instantly popdown
the window.  This feature was borrowed from xpbiff.
.TP
.B -acmd \fIsound command\fR
This will run a command instead of ringing the bell when new mail arrives.
For example, you could "cat meow >/dev/audio".  This option could also
be used to automatically open a mail reader when new mail arrives.
.TP
.B -horiz
This will line up the boxes horizontally 
.I(default: vertical)
.TP
.B -nobeep
This will disable the beep (or sound command) when new 
mail arrives
.TP
.B -boxfile \fIfilename\fR
The name of a file containing configuration information for the boxes.  The
boxfile is an alternative way of specifying what to watch.  The boxfile also
allows each box to have different polltime, headertime, etc.
.TP
.B -origMode
This will show all messages in each mailbox.  It has no effect on 
news groups.
.TP
.B -names
Will display the full pathname of all the mailboxes 
it is watching.
.TP
.B -shortnames
Will display the file names of all the mailboxes 
it is watching.
.TP
.B -priority \fIpriority\fR
Nice level at which xbuffy and its child processes will run.
.TP
.B -command \fIcommand\fR
This is the default command that is to be executed when Button 2 is pressed 
on a box.
.TP
.I X Options
Standard X windows options (e.g. -fn, -display, etc.)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
The names and purpose of the some of the following environment 
variables were borrowed from Bash, the GNU Shell.
.TP 5
.B MAILCHECK
This specifies the amount of seconds to wait in between 
polling for mail.
.TP
.B MAILPATH
This is a colon separated list of files to check for mail.
.TP
.B NEWSPATH
This is a colon separated list of newsgroups to monitor.
.TP
.B NNTPSERVER
This is the name of the NNTP server to use for news boxes.

.SH X DEFAULTS
The application class is XBuffy.
Almost all the arguments above can be set in the X resource
database, allowing for one-time configuration and eliminating
long command lines.  The environment variables described
above take precedence over any X resources that are
specified.  Also, any command line arguments take precedence
over both X resources and environment variables. 

.SH BOXFILE FORMAT
The boxfile contains configuration information for each box.  Any line
that begins with '#' is considered a comment and is ignored.  The
definition of a box begins with the keyword \fIbox\fR followed by 
the filename or newsgroup for that box.  All subsequent lines are then 
used to configure that box until either another \fIbox\fR command or
the end of file.  Note that these options are NOT case sensitive.

The following are settable on a per box basis by using
the \fIboxfile\fR option (note that the boxfile may also be set in
the Xresources with the resource Xbuffy.boxfile: <filename>).  

When using a \fIboxfile\fR, only the \fIbox\fR line is required.  All options
that are not given in the boxfile will default to the command line 
(or built in) value.
.TP 10
.B box \fIfile name\fR 
The filename or newsgroup for this box.  This also marks the beginning of
a box definition.
.TP
.B title \fIbox title\fR
The title that you want for this box.  This will override the shortname or 
longname option.
.TP
.B mailbox 
Specify that the box is a mailbox (a file).  If neither mailbox or 
newsbox is specified, mailbox is the default.
.TP
.B newsbox
Specify that the box is a newsbox (a NNTP newsgroup).
.TP
.B origMode 
origMode will make Xbuffy try to act like Xmultibiff and count ALL messages
instead of just NEW message.  
.TP
.B newMode 
newMode will make Xbuffy count only new messages (this is the default).
.TP
.B nobeep
This will disable the beep (or sound command) when new 
mail arrives
in the specified mailbox to be counted.  
.TP
.B beep
This will enable the beep (or sound) when new 
mail arrives
in the specified mailbox to be counted.  
.TP
.B shortname
This will cause the specified box to be prefaced with the filename.
.TP
.B longname
This will cause the specified box to 
be prefaced with a full path name.
.TP
.B audio \fIcommand string\fR
Set to the command string to be used automatically when
new mail arrives.  
.TP
.B polltime \fIsecs\fR
Set to the time (in seconds) in between polling the box.
.TP
.B headertime \fIsecs\fR
Set to the time (in seconds) to display the header when new 
things arrive.
.TP
.B command  \fIcommand string\fR
Specifies a UNIX shell command to be executed by
\fBsh\fR when the middle mouse button is pushed in a
box.  Take care to escape characters correctly.

.TP 0
The following resources are settable on a per application basis
in the Xresources:

.TP 10
.B horiz
Set to TRUE or FALSE.  Same as the -horiz option.
.TP
.B mailboxes
Set to a colon separated list of mailboxes (files).  This
is the same as specifying files on the command line.
.TP
.B newsboxes
Set to a colon separated list of news groups.  This
is the same as specifying files on the command line.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following examples demonstrate how to configure xbuffy to do the
same thing from both the command-line and X resources.  Although, for
maximum flexibility on a per-box basis, I suggest using a boxfile.

The following example will watch 2 mailboxes in a home directory:
.nf
	\fI% xbuffy -mail ~/box1 ~/box2 &\fR
.fi

 boxfile:
.nf
	box ~/box1
	box ~/box2
.fi

The following example will watch a mailbox and a newsgroup:
.nf
	\fI% xbuffy -mail /usr/spool/mail/you -news comp.windows.x &\fR
.fi

 boxfile:
.nf
	box /usr/spool/mail/you
	box comp.windows.x
	newsbox
.fi

.SH GRATITUDE
Thanks to John Reardon for writing the original Xmultibiff and Xmultibiff
2.0.  Xbuffy is a modified version of Xmultibiff 2.0 (although the
code is looking less and less similar everyday).
.SH BUGS

There is a bug with the NNTP stuff that isn't really Buffy's fault.  Most 
versions of the NNTP server will not dynamically update the high message
number (you must disconnect from the server and re-connect to get a
new high message).  If your server is running one of these versions of
NNTP then you will not get told of new articles in your newsboxes.

.SH AUTHOR

xbuffy:	Bill Pemberton, wfp5p@virginia.EDU
.TP
xmultibiff: John Reardon, Midnight Networks Inc., 
	badger@midnight.com
