.\" $Id: youbind.man,v 4.2 1994/06/12 09:32:58 yamamoto Exp $
.TH YOUBIND 8 "26 September 1993"
.SH "NAME"
youbind \- Server of youbin service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByoubind\fP
[ \fB\-d\fP ]
[ \fB\-h\fP ]
[ \fB\-A \fIport\fP ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
youbind is a server of the youbin protocol which is a
derivation of "biff" protocol suitable for Network age. It has upward
compatibility to "biff". youbind accepts the client request to
observe the mail spool of the user specified. When youbind detects the
change of the mail spool, it will notify the client so. youbin
communicates with clients periodically to maintain the connection.  It
detects writing in the spool by receiving the "biff" packet from
/bin/mail. It detects reading from the spool by polling mechanism.
However, this polling period is quite long to lighten the load of the
server. Therefore, it is requested to be informed to the server that
the mail have read from the spool. Modified version of POP is provided
to inform youbind when reading mails, since youbin protocol is
considered to work with POP. mh-inc-hook for this is also provided for
the user of mh-e of emacs.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-d
Various debugging information will be output with this option.
This information includes log of communication with clients,
registration and removal of clients, status changes of clients.
.TP 8
.B \-h
Simple explanation of youbind will be output.
.TP 8
.B \-A\fI port\fP
youbind will receive the packet from the specified
port besides the "biff" port. This option is for the machine which
uses ports except the "biff" port to inform of the arrival of mail. At
this time, only MIPS's RISC/os uses the different port named "mbiff".
.SH "FILES"
.br
/usr/spool/mail         Mail spool directory
.SH "SEE ALSO"
biff(1), youbin(1), xyoubin(1)
.SH "BUGS"
The number of the registered user is limited to 256. The number of
mail clients is limited to 1024.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Kiyoshi Agusa           agusa@nuie.nagoya-u.ac.jp
.br
Shinichirou Yamamoto    yamamoto@nuie.nagoya-u.ac.jp

