.\" $Id: youbin.man,v 4.2 1994/06/12 09:32:44 yamamoto Exp $
.TH YOUBIN 1 "26 September 1993"
.SH "NAME"
youbin \- client of youbin service
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByoubin\fP
[ \fB\-b\fP ]
[ \fB\-d\fP ]
[ \fB\-h\fP ]
[ \fB\-m\fP \fIcheck_file\fP ]
[ \fB\-p\fP \fIprog\fP ]
[ \fB\-s\fP \fIhost\fP ]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
youbin is client of the youbin protocol which is a
derivation of "biff" protocol suitable for Network age. The client
program for youbin protocol, named youbin, operates just like
"biff -y" via LAN. That is, the user can be notified of mail
arrivals on the remote MailServer host. Moreover, it can be used to
inform of the mail arrival with sh and csh. Of course, this mail
"arrival" means that a mail is received at MailServer host. This
program is made by using the youbin_sub library and is for the
explanation of the usage of "youbin_sub".
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-b
A part of header and contents of mail will be displayed with
this option. This option is influenced by -p option. That is, this
option will be disregarded when -p option is given. Moreover, -m
option also influences to this option. Only the fact of mail arrival
will be informed of if there is no -m nor -p.
.TP 8
.B \-d
Various debugging information will be output with this option.
For example, communication log with server is displayed.
.TP 8
.B \-h
Simple explanation of youbin will be output with this option.
.TP 8
.B \-m \fIcheck_file\fP
The message informed of mail arrival is written in the
file specified by the -m option, i.e. \fIcheck_file\fP. The size of
\fIcheck_file\fP will be changed to 0 when mail is read out. As a result,
the size reflects the size of the mail spool file at the mail server. If
this file is specified as a mail check file of shell, the shell
program can display "You have new mail." when a new mail arrives. This
is useful when the user can not use multi-window system and wants not
to be disturbed his display with "biff" messages. If a user wants to
use this function in csh, write the following lines in .cshrc.
.LP
.RS
.PD 0
.TP 3
youbin -m ~/.mail_check_file -s server_name &
.TP 3
set mail=~/.mail_check_file
.PD
.RE
.LP
If -p option is specified, this option will become invalid.
.TP
.B \-p \fIprog\fP
The packets received from youbind are transferred to the
specified program \fIprog\fP via a pipe. This is provided for asynchronous
operation with other programs.
.TP
.B \-s \fIServer\fP
This option specifies the mail sever \fIServer\f on which
youbind is running. If there is no -s option, youbin assumes that the
server is running on the local machine.
.SH "FILES"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
biff(1), csh(1), sh(1), youbind(1), xyoubin(1), youbin_sub(2)
.SH "AUTHORS"
Kiyoshi Agusa           agusa@nuie.nagoya-u.ac.jp
.br
Shinichirou Yamamoto    yamamoto@nuie.nagoya-u.ac.jp
