.TH SUMTIMEX "24 May 1993" ""
.SH NAME
sumtimex - printing out how many hours you worked last week
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sumtimex
[-option ...] [weekno]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I sumtimex
program takes the files written by
.I timex
and sums them into a single timesheet for the week.

The sums are done from Monday to Sunday; the default week is the week
that just ended.
.br
(To get this week, use "now" in place of the week number)

Projects that start with a dash (-) are not included in the sum.
.br
Projects that start with a plus (+) are handled specially; see the
-adjust command.

Sumtimex is written in Perl, so modifying it should be rather easy.

.SH OPTIONS
Sumtimex has
.I lots
of options. Some of them are listed below.
.TP 8
.B -round
Round off each sum printed to the nearest half hour.

.TP 8
.B -adjust
Take all projects that start with a "+" sign and spread them evenly over
all the other projects worked on this week.

.TP 8
.B -fudge factor
Give the round-off point when rounding to the nearest half hour.
The default is 0.5, but that will tend to lose you time when you
have worked a lot on small projects. Sumtimex will print a warning if
the change is greater than half an hour.
The fudge factor should be between 0 and 1.

.TP 8
.B -year nn
Give the year; useful if you have to make the timesheets for December
in January.

.TP 8
.B -name string
Change the name printed on the top of the timesheet.
Default is your /etc/passwd GECOS field, up to the first comma.

.TP 8
.B -nameadd string
Add a string (like your employee number) to the front of your name.

.TP 8
.B -lang code
Give the language for the form. Norwegian (no), English (en), French
(fr), German (de) and Italian (it) are more or less included. Comments
and contributions are welcomed!

If not given, sumtimex will attempt to inspect the LANG environment
variable, the hostname, and the domainname to find out what language
to use. If you are surprised, drop me a line.

.TP 8
.B -minutes
Print out the time in hours and minutes (hh:mm), rather than decimal hours.

.TP 8
.B -monthday
Print out the month first then the day (MM/DD), rather than the default DD/MM.

.TP 8
.B -debug
Print out a lot of not very useful information. If you are surprised
by the language chosen, send me a printout with -debug on.

.SH INITFILE
.I sumtimex
will attempt to read its values from the file $TIMEXDIR/sumdefaults.
The format is as the command line, with one option per line, and no
initial dash. Command-line options override those listed in the sumdefaults
file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
timex(1)

.SH BUGS
A lot of the languages have some strings missing. These will be printed
in English, with a star (*) in front of them. Contributions solicited!

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990-1993, Harald Tveit Alvestrand
.SH AUTHORS
Harald Tveit Alvestrand (DELAB, SINTEF, Norway)
.br
E-mail: Harald.T.Alvestrand@delab.sintef.no



