.\" @(#)xmove.1	1.2 04 Feb 1994
.TH xmove 1 "11 Aug 1993"
.SH NAME
xmove \- pseudoserver to support mobile X11 clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmove 
[
.B -server 
.I server_name:port
] [
.B -port 
.I listen_port
]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xmove
starts a pseudoserver which allows X11 clients to
be relocated from one display to another. Upon startup it will
create a listening port from which it accepts new client
connections. All such clients will be displayed on the default
server until moved elsewhere. Several clients may connect through
a single 
.I xmove,
thus requiring only one per machine.
.PP
.I xmove
will assume logical default values for both the
default listening port and the default server. Take as an
example a typical machine named \fIchestnut\fP, with a standard X11 server
named \fIchestnut:0\fP.
.PP
The default listening port is 1. In our example, this
would mean clients should be sent to \fIchestnut:1\fP instead of
\fIchestnut:0\fP if you wish them to be run through 
.I xmove.
.PP
The default server is obtained from the environment
variable \fBDISPLAY\fP, which would normally be set to \fIchestnut:0\fP, as
in our example. This server is the display to which all new
connections will be initially sent, and this default cannot be
changed once 
.I xmove
is started.
.PP
.SH TYPICAL USAGE
Assuming that the environment variable \fBDISPLAY\fP contains
the name of your default server, no options need to be set. 
.PP
.I xmove
will listen for new connections at localhost:1, where localhost
is the machine on which 
.I xmove
is being run.
.PP
.I xmove
displays messages to stdout and stderr as it runs,
including information when a client is moved and whenever the X11
server sends an error to a client.
.PP
To manipulate clients running on an 
.I xmove,
see 
.I xmovectrl.

.SH SECURITY

.I xmove
supports both host-level security, implemented with
.I xhost,
and
.I MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1,
implemented with
.I xauth.
A new client will only be permitted access through
.I xmove
if it could have been started on the default server directly.
A client can be moved to a new server if that new server
either permits
.I xmove's
host via
.I xhost,
or if the user moving the client has the proper cookie entry
via
.I xauth.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -server
Use the specified server as the default server
to which all clients are to be displayed.
.TP
.I -port
Use the specified port as the default port through
which all clients should connect to 
.I xmove.
Users must specify a display of \fIlocalhost:n\fP, where \fIlocalhost\fP is
the name of the machine on which
.I xmove
was executed, and n is the specified port.
The port must be a number from 1 to 9.

.SH "MULTI-HEADED DISPLAYS"
.I xmove
supports displays that have multiple screens. When moving a
client it is possible to specify the screen on the destination
machine. When starting a client through an
.I xmove
with a multi-headed default server, it is possible to specify the
screen on which the client should appear, so long as both screens
have the same characteristics (ie. both 1-bit, both 8-bit color,
etc.) If the screens are different, it is necessary to start the
client on screen 0 and then move to the desired screen.

.SH "X TERMINALS"
	In order to use
.I xmove
with an X terminal you can run
.I xmove
on another workstation, and specify the X terminal as the default
server. If multiple people wish to run xmove on the same
workstation for multiple X terminals, each xmove must have its
own listening port.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.PP
The environment variable
.I XMOVE_ATOMMAP_LIBPATH
can be set to the directory where
.I xmove's
support libraries are located. This will override the directory
set at compile time.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR xmovectrl (1), 
.BR X11 (7),
.BR xhost (1),

.SH BUGS
This is a new and fairly untested product. Without
attempting to frighten off potential users, it is recommended
that all applications intended to be used with 
.I xmove
first be tested in an 
.I xmove
environment. This includes attempting to move
the application to a new server.
.PP
.I xmove
does not work in all environments nor with all
programs. Although xmove does support moving clients between
displays with different characteristics, there are limitations.
Most notably, a client started on a 1-bit black-and-white display
can only be moved to other 1-bit displays. Additionally, clients
can only be started on a default server which is either 1-bit, or
color, excepting 24-bit color.
.PP
.I xmove
requires font compatibility between displays. Thus, if your
client makes use of a certain font, that font must be available
on all displays to which your client is moved.
.PP
Questions regarding
.I xmove,
its capabilities, limitations and future possibilities may be sent to
that email address, or posted to comp.windows.x.
.PP
Bug reports and other problems may be sent to ethan@cs.columbia.edu.

.SH NOTES
Always remember that not all of your applications need to
use 
.I xmove.
If some of your clients prove incompatible with 
.I xmove,
simply run them directly to the desired server.
.PP
It may sometimes be necessary to refresh your display
after moving a new client onto it. This is provided as a standard
option by most window managers via a menu option.

.SH AUTHORS
Ethan Solomita, Columbia University
.PP
Peter Skopp, Columbia University
.PP
Ari Shamash, Columbia University
.PP
This work was supported by Professor Dan Duchamp of
Columbia University and by Dick Sillman and Jim Kempf of Sun
Microsystems, Inc.
.PP
.I xmove
is based upon
.I xmon,
which was written by Greg McFarlane, OTC, Australia.
.PP
.I xmon
was based upon
.I xscope,
written by James L. Peterson, MCC.
