This directory contains some examples of ~/.xinitrc, ~/.xsession, ~/.X11Startup
and ~/.Xdefaults files.  It also contains an example of configuration file,
common to several window managers.  These files are described below.

WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING

Due to the compliance with ISO 9660 CD-ROM format, the first dot (`.') has been
removed from the names of these files.  Don't forget to rename the files if
you want to use them.

WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING WARNING

                                      ----

The ~/.xinitrc file is the shell script used by "xinit" as startup file.  When
this script ends, the X server will be shut down, and the X Window session will
die.  The .xinitrc.short file in this directory contains only one command to
execute xsession.  However, if you wish to modify one or some xsession
resources, you must first read the user's application-defaults file with
"xrdb".  You should run xsession with the "exec" shell command in order to
reduce the number of processes owned by the user; indeed, as xsession is run as
the last client, the "sh" process having read the script becomes useless. The
.xinitrc file given here does that.  Maybe should you test if xsession can be
accessed within the PATH; look at the .xinitrc.safe file.

The ~/.xsession file is the shell-script used by "xdm" as startup file.  When
this script ends, the X server will be reset in such a way that all X
applications running on this display die.  The .xinitrc examples given here are
very simple and so could be used as .xsession without any modification.

The ~/.X11Startup file is the shell script run by xsession at startup.  It
should contain all applications wanted by the user when he is logging on.  The
example shown here customizes the X screen saver, clears the screen's
background, runs an "xconsole" application only if the user isn't logging on
from an X terminal, and starts an "xterm" application.  Don't forget that the
window manager is run by xsession itself, so you don't have to start it in
this file.

The ~/.Xdefaults file is the user's application-defaults file.  It should be
read with "xrdb" in the ~/.xinitrc or ~/.xsession script.  The example given
here shows how to add a new (fictive) window manager, SWM, and a new
application, Editres, to the default menus; moreover, only frequently used
window managers are kept in the list.  See the manual page for details about
the building rules for these resources.

The .wmrc.m4 file given here is an example of configuration file which can be
shared between "twm", "ctwm" and "vtwm".  Some lines are protected by a test on
the "WM_NAME" macro, while other lines are common.  This file shows how to use
some useful m4 directives.  The "MENUS" section could also be used (or
included) in a file shared by "mwm" (Motif), "vuewm" (HP) and "4Dwm" (IRIX).


COPYRIGHT

  Copyright (C) 1993, 1994, Alain Nissen & Raphael Quinet, University of Liege,
                                                                       Belgium.

  The X Consortium, and any party obtaining a copy of these files from the
  X Consortium, directly or indirectly, is granted, free of charge, a full and
  unrestricted irrevocable, world-wide, paid up, royalty-free, nonexclusive
  right and license to deal in this software and documentation files (the
  "Software"), including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
  merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software,
  and to permit persons who receive copies from any such party to do so.  This
  license includes without limitation a license to do the foregoing actions
  under any patents of the party supplying this software to the X Consortium.

  THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
  X CONSORTIUM, THE AUTHORS OR THE UNIVERSITY OF LIEGE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
  DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
  OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE
  OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

  The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
  all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
