.TH XRERRNO 3X "Xrlib Version 10"
.SH NAME
xrErrno \- error indicator for Xrlib toolbox calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <Xr/Xrlib.h>
.br
extern INT32 xrErrno
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.I xrErrno
is an external variable whose value is set whenever an error occurs
within an Xrlib toolbox procedure.
This value can be used to obtain a more detailed description as to
why a toolbox request failed.
Most Xrlib toolbox procedures will return either a
.B NULL
value, or a value of zero, when they fail; the individual descriptions
for each of the toolbox facilities specify the details.
.I xrErrno
is not cleared on successful toolbox calls, so its value should
be checked only when an error has been indicated.
.sp
Each toolbox procedure's manual page attempts to list all possible
error numbers which could occur as a result of issuing that request.
The following is a complete list of the error names.
The numeric values can be found in
.B <Xr/defs.h>
but should not be used.
.sp 2
.IP "XrOUTOFMEM Out of memory"
This error is normally returned as a result of the called function
being unable to allocate enough memory to perform the specified task.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDID Invalid Id"
This error implies that an invalid Id (window Id, font Id, editor instance
pointer, etc) was specified.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDOPTION Invalid option"
This error will occur if a parameter is set to a value which is
not among a fixed set of supported values for that particular parameter.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDRECT Invalid rectangle specification"
This error will normally occur when a function is passed a rectangle
definition, which for one reason or another is invalid.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDPTR Invalid (NULL) pointer specified"
This error will occur when a required pointer parameter has been set to
.B NULL,
instead of to a valid pointer value.
.sp
.IP "XrPARMOUTOFRANGE Parameter is out of range"
This error will normally occur when a parameter has been set to
value which does not fall within the range of values allowed for
that parameter.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDDEPTH Invalid raster depth"
This error will occur when an invalid raster depth is specified.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDMSG Invalid message"
This error will occur when an unknown message is passed to one
of the Xrlib toolbox functions.
.sp
.IP "XrXCALLFAILED A call to the 'X' server failed"
This error may occur anytime one of the Xrlib functions
issues a call to the 'X' server, which subsequently fails
for some reason.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDEVENT Invalid event"
This error will occur when an event be used by one
of the Xrlib toolbox functions is invalid or not the correct type.
.sp
.IP "XrFILEERROR File error"
This error will occur when an Xrlib function fails when it attempts
to access a disc file.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDPARM Invalid parameter"
This error serves as a catch all for all other error condition.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDTYPE Invalid type"
This error is used by the resource manager when an invalid resource
type is referenced.
.sp
.IP "XrINVALIDSTATE Invalid state"
This error is used by the resource manager to indicate that a
state setting has prevented a message from succeeding.
