.TH XRINPUTINIT 3X "Xrlib Version 10"
.SH NAME
XrInputInit \- initialize the input mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
#include <Xr/keycode.h>
.sp 1
.br
unsigned char * 
.br
.B XrInputInit()
.in
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
This routine is called by 
.B XrInit(3X),
and normally is never called directly by an application.  Applications
should not call this routine unless they are interested in using only the
input mapping routines, and they do not call 
.B XrInit.
.br
.sp 1
This call initializes input structures which support the input
mapping routines
.B XrInputConf(), XrInputMap()
and
.B XrInputMute().
These routines provide more general mapping services than
.B XLookupMapping(3X),
which take into account the differences between DEC, SUN, and HP
keyboards, including the various international versions of the
HP keyboard.
.B XrInputMap(3X) performs the mapping.
In special cases,
.B XrInputConf
and
.B XrInputMute
are used to control the mapping mode , or to access ISO 7 bit
mapping directly on a character by character basis.
.br
.sp 1
Memory is allocated to hold
the input structures.  The type and language of the keyboard is determined
by the display type field for the current display
and the tables are set up for that language.  
If the keyboard is a HP keyboard, the keyboard type is set to K_HP and the
language is determined.  If it is not an HP keyboard,
the keyboard type is set to K_DEFAULT and the language is set to K_HP_USASCII.
A pointer to the ISO 7 bit
to Roman 8 bit conversion table for that language is returned.  This
table should be used to map your output if K_ASCII8 is not set (in 7 bit
mode).  K_ASCII8 is set (1) on initialization.  K_MUTE, K_ALT_ENABLE and 
K_16BITIO_ENABLE are set as 
appropriate for the language.  K_ALT
and K_16BITIO are read-only flags which are initially clear.
.SH SEE ALSO
XrInputConf(3X), XrInputMap(3X), XrInputMute(3X)
