.TH XRINPUTCONF 3X "Xrlib Version 10"
.SH NAME
XrInputConf \- configure the input mapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <Xr/keycode.h>
.br
.sp 1
int 
.br
.B XrInputConf (param, value)
.br
int param;
.br
int value;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This routine changes the configuration of the input mapping
provided by 
.B XrInputMap(3X).
.B param
indicates which configuration
parameter is to be changed or queried, while 
.B value
contains the value to which the
parameter is to be set to, or, if set to -1, indicates
that the value is being queried.
.br
.sp 1
.B param
can be set to one of the following values:
.TP
.B K_TYPE
If 
.B value
is -1, the current keyboard type is returned.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is K_HP or K_DEFAULT, the keyboard type will be changed.
.TP
\fBK_LANGUAGE\fR
If
\fBvalue\fR
is -1, the current keyboard language is returned.  If
\fBvalue\fR
is a legal keyboard language (K_HP_USASCII to K_HP_KANJI), the
keyboard language is changed.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is not a legal language, the language will be reset to the power-on
language as determined by 
\fBXrInputInit(3Xr)\fR.
.TP
\fBK_ASCII8\fR
If
\fBvalue\fR
is -1, the current state is returned.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is 1, 8 bit mode is in effect.  If
\fBvalue\fR
is 0, ISO 7 bit mode is in effect. 
.TP
\fBK_MUTE\fR
If
\fBvalue\fR
is -1, the current state is returned.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is 1, muting is in effect.  If
\fBvalue\fR
is 0, muting is in turned off.  When muting is enabled, the diacriticals
are collapsed with the characters they are modifying and the new code is
returned.  For example, if R_TILTA (tilta accent) is received, 
it is saved and no
code is returned.  Then an N is received.  The code R_N_TILTA is returned.
Muting will not be done if K_ASCII8 is not set regardless of the value 
of K_MUTE.
.TP
\fBK_16BITIO_ENABLE\fR
If
\fBvalue\fR
is -1, the current state is returned.  
If
\fBvalue\fR
is 1, the right extend char key will cause K_16BITIO to be set and the left
extend char key will cause K_16BITIO to be cleared.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is 2, the left extend char key will cause K_16BITIO to be set and the right
extend char key will cause K_16BITIO to be cleared.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is 3, the right extend char key will cause K_16BITIO to be toggled.  If
\fBvalue\fR
is 4, the left extend char key will cause K_16BITIO to be toggled.
If K_16BITIO is set, the 16 bit input routines will be called.  
If
\fBvalue\fR
is 0, 16 bit input is disabled and K_16BITIO will not be set.
K_HP_KANJI will default to 4 and all other current languages will default to 0.
NOTE: 16 bit input is not currently supported but is planned.
.TP
\fBK_ALT_ENABLE\fR
If
\fBvalue\fR
is -1, the current state is returned.  If
\fBvalue\fR
is 1, the right extend char key will cause K_ALT to be set and the left
extend char key will cause K_ALT to be cleared.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is 2, the left extend char key will cause K_ALT to be set and the right
extend char key will cause K_ALT to be cleared.  If 
\fBvalue\fR
is 3, the right extend char key will cause K_ALT to be toggled.  If
\fBvalue\fR
is 4, the left extend char key will cause K_ALT to be toggled.
If K_ALT is set, an alternate language-dependent key mapping will be used.
If
\fBvalue\fR
is 0, the extend char keys will behave like shift keys (ie. the alternate
map will be used when the extend char key is down at the same time as the
key being mapped.  The meta modifier is set when the extend char keys are
pressed).  K_HP_KATAKANA will default to 1, K_HP_KANJI will default
to 3 and all other current languages will default to 0.
.TP
\fBK_ALT\fR
.TP
\fBK_16BITIO\fR
These flags are read-only.  See K_ALT_ENABLE and K_16BITIO_ENABLE for
descriptions.  Alternate keyboard maps will not be used if K_ASCII8 is not
set regardless of the value of K_ALT or the meta modifier.
.SH SEE ALSO
XrInputInit(3X),XrInputMap(3X),XrInputMute(3X)
