.TH XRUTILITIES 3X "Xrlib Version 10"
.SH NAME
Utilities - Utilities for performing some general functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <X/Xib.h>
.br
#include <Xr/Xrlib.h>
.br
.PP
.B XrStringWidth (fontInfo, str, charWidth, charPad, spacePad)
.br
FontInfo * fontInfo;
.br
STRING8 str;
.br
INT32 charWidth;
.br
INT32 charPad;
.br
INT32 spacePad;
.PP
.br
.B XrMapButton (eventCode, event)
.br
INT8 eventCode;
.br
XEvent * event;
.PP
.br
.B XrGetWindowEvent (eventCode, windowEvent)
.br
INT8 eventCode;
.br
xrWindowEvent * windowEvent;
.br
.PP
.br
INT8 *
.br
.B XrVersion ()
.br
.PP
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IP XrStringWidth
XrStringWidth() calculates the width in pixels of a character string
using the font information contained in the structure pointed at by
.I fontInfo.
The string is represented by the rest of the parameters.
.I str
points to the string to be used in the calculation.
.I charWidth
contains the length of the string in characters or is set to the define
.B XrNULLTERMINATED
if the string is null-terminated.
.I charPad
and
.I spacePad
contain the additional space to be placed between characters and spaces
respectively.
.IP
The pixel width of the string is returned as the value of the function.
.IP XrMapButton
XrMapButton takes as a parameter an eventCode which contains one of the
following defines:
.B XrSELECT, XrSELECTUP, XrMENUPOST, XrMENUITEMSELECT.
The event parameter will be compared against the conditions necessary
for the above defines and if a match is found 
.B TRUE
will be returned.  If no match is found,
.B FALSE
will be returned.
.IP XrGetWindowEvent
XrGetWindowEvent() takes as input one of the defines
.B XrSELECT, XrSELECTUP, XrMENUPOST, XrMENUITEMSELECT
and fills out the xrWindowEvent structure with the values
necessary for the define.  The structure can then be used
to add a function into a window that will be invoked under
one of the defines conditions.
.IP XrVersion
XrVersion() returns a pointer to a string 
which contains the version of Xrlib being
used.  The string will have the format of 
.B X-ray Version ##  -  ##.##  
The ## contains the X library version that the Xr library was built with.
The ##.## can be ignored.  The string returned is static and thus
cannot be modified.
