.ad l
.nh
.TH XTP 1 "10 October 1992"
.SH NAME
xtp - file transfer program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xtp"
[ \fI-options\fP ... ] \fI<host/ip address>\fP [ \fI<home directory>\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xtp
is a utility for retrieving, listing, or printing files from a remote
network site, or sending files to a remote network site.
.I xtp
performs most of the same functions as the \fBftp\fP program, but does
not require any interactive commands.  You simply specify the file transfer
task on the command line and \fBxtp\fP performs the task automatically.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
To retrieve file display.tar.Z from host wizard.dupont.com, use:
.PP
.B
     xtp -binary -retrieve display.tar.Z wizard.dupont.com
.PP
To retrieve all the files from directory \fIpublic/documents\fP from host
wizard.dupont.com, use:
.PP
     xtp -binary -retrieve documents/ wizard.dupont.com public
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B "-binary"
retrieve files as binary.
.TP
.B "-exclude \fIexpression\fP"
exclude files that match the \fIregular expression\fP.
.TP
.B "-directory \fIexpression\fP"
list the names of files and their attributes that match the
\fIregular expression\fP.
.TP
.B "-ident \fIpassword\fP"
specifies password.
.TP
.B "-port \fInumber\fP"
If no port number is specified, \fBxtp\fP attempts to contact a FTP server
at the default port.  Otherwise, the specfied port number is used.
.TP
.B "-print \fIexpression\fP"
print files that match the \fIregular expression\fP.
.TP
.B "-prune"
do not recursively search for files.
.TP
.B "-retrieve \fIexpression\fP"
retrieve files that match the \fIregular expression\fP.

Retrieved files are stored on your local host directory as the full
name of the retrieved file.  For example, if the retrieved file is
named \fBdocuments/xtp.man\fP on the remote FTP server, it will appear
in your home directory as \fBdocuments/xtp.man\fP.
.TP
.B "-send \fIexpression\fP"
send files that match the \fIregular expression\fP.
.TP
.B "-timeout \fIseconds\fP"
specifies the maximum seconds to complete your remote FTP server request.
If this time expires, the program terminates.  The program also terminates if
one tenth of this value is exceeded while logging onto the remote FTP
server.
.TP
.B "-user \fIname\fP"
identify yourself to the remote FTP server.

If \fB-user\fP is specified but not \fB-ident\fP, the password is obtained
from you interactively.
.TP
.B "-verbose"
show all responses from the remote server.
.PP
If neither \fB-print\fP, \fB-retrieve\fP, or \fB-send\fP are specified
on the command line, a directory of files is listed for the remote
network host.
.PP
\fBxtp\fP recursively descends the directory hierarchy from the home
directory. Some remote hosts may have thousands of files causing a
significant delay satisfying your request.  This can be wasteful if the
files you are interested in reside in a known directory.  You can
reduce the searching required by specifying \fI<home directory>\fP on
the command line.  This limits the filename search to the specified
directory and any of its subdirectories.  Alternatively, \fB-prune\fP
restricts the search to the home directory only.
.PP
If only the program name is specified on the command line, the program command
syntax and options are listed.
.SH REGULAR EXPRESSIONS
A \fIregular expression\fP is zero or more branches, separated by
\fB|\fP.  It matches anything that matches one of the branches.
.PP
A branch is zero or more pieces, concatenated.  It matches a match for
the first, followed by a match for the second, etc.
.PP
A piece is an atom possibly followed by \fB*\fP, \fB+\fP, or \fB?\fP.
An atom followed by \fB*\fP matches a sequence of 0 or more matches of
the atom.  An atom followed by \fB+\fP matches a sequence of 1 or more
matches of the atom.  An atom followed by \fB?\fP matches a match of
the atom, or the null pattern.
.PP
An atom is a \fIregular expression\fP in parentheses (matching a match
for the \fIregular expression\fP), a range (see below), \fB.\fP
(matching any single character), \fB^\fP (matching the null pattern at
the beginning of the input pattern), \fB$\fP (matching the null pattern
at the end of the input pattern), a \fB\'\fP followed by a single
character (matching that character), or a single character with no
other significance (matching that character).
.PP
A range is a sequence of characters enclosed in \fB[]\fP.  It normally
matches any single character from the sequence.  If the sequence begins
with \fB^\fP, it matches any single character not from the rest of the
sequence.  If two characters in the sequence are separated by \fB-\fP,
this is shorthand for the full list of ASCII characters between them
(e.g.  \fB[0-9]\fP matches any decimal digit). To include a literal
\fB]\fP in the sequence, make it the first character (following a
possible \fB^\fP).  To include a literal \fB-\fP, make it the first or
last character.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B
ftp(1C)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1994 E. I. Dupont de Nemours and Company
.PP
Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of E. I. Dupont de Nemours
and Company not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.  E. I. Dupont de Nemours and Company makes no representations
about the suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided
"as is" without express or implied warranty.
.PP
E. I. Dupont de Nemours and Company disclaims all warranties with regard
to this software, including all implied warranties of merchantability
and fitness, in no event shall E. I. Dupont de Nemours and Company be
liable for any special, indirect or consequential damages or any
damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether
in an action of contract, negligence or other tortious action, arising
out of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
.SH ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Steve Singles, University of Delaware, for the initial implementation of
this program.
.PP
Henry Spencer, University of Toronto, for the implementation of the
\fIregular expression\fP interpreter and the text in \fBREGULAR
EXPRESSIONS\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
John Cristy, E.I. DuPont De Nemours and Company Incorporated
