.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XAddHost 3X 
.SH NAME
XAddHost, XAddHosts, XListHosts, XRemoveHost, XRemoveHosts, XSetAccessControl, XEnableAccessControl, XDisableAccessContro \- control host access
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XAddHost.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:09:36 mento Exp $
XAddHost\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIhost\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XHostAddress *\fIhost\fP\^;	
.LP
XAddHosts\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIhosts\fP, \fInum_hosts\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XHostAddress *\fIhosts\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInum_hosts\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetHosts.f,v 11.9 87/08/15 12:13:01 mento Exp $
XHostAddress *XListHosts\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fInhosts_return\fP, \fIstate_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fInhosts_return\fP\^;
.br
      Bool *\fIstate_return\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XRemoveHost.f,v 11.6 87/08/15 12:15:26 mento Exp $
XRemoveHost\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIhost\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XHostAddress *\fIhost\fP\^;
.LP
XRemoveHosts\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIhosts\fP, \fInum_hosts\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XHostAddress *\fIhosts\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInum_hosts\fP\^;
.LP
XSetAccessControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fImode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fImode\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XEnAccsCntrl.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:12:19 mento Exp $
XEnableAccessControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XDisAcsCntrl.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:12:10 mento Exp $
XDisableAccessControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies whether you want to change the access control to enable or disable.
.PN EnableAccess
enables host access control or
.PN DisableAccess 
disables host access control. 
.\" $Header: host.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:53 mento Exp $
.IP \fIhost\fP 1i
Specifies the network address of the host machine.
.IP \fIhosts\fP 1i
Specifies each host that is to be added.
.\" $Header: nhosts.a,v 11.6 87/09/11 17:29:38 mento Exp $
.IP \fInhosts_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of hosts currently in the access control list.
.IP \fInum_hosts\fP 1i
Specifies the number of hosts.
.IP \fIstate_return\fP 1i
Returns the state of the access control (enabled or disabled).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XAddHost.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:24 mento Exp $
The
.PN XAddHost
function adds the specified host to the access control list for that display.
The display hardware must be on the same host as the program issuing the
command.
.LP
.\" $Header: XAddHosts.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:26 mento Exp $
The
.PN XAddHosts
function adds each specified host to the access control list for that display.
The display hardware must be on the same host as the program issuing the
command.
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetHosts.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:27 mento Exp $
The
.PN XListHosts
function returns the current access control list as well as whether the use of the
list at connection setup was enabled or disabled.
.LP
.\" $Header: XRemoveHost.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:59 mento Exp $
The
.PN XRemoveHost
function removes the specified host from the access control list for that display.
The display hardware must be on the same host as the client process.
.LP
.\" $Header: XRemoveHosts.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:00 mento Exp $
The
.PN XRemoveHosts
function removes each specified host from the access control list for that display.
The display hardware must be on the same host as the client process.
.LP
.\" $Header: XChAccsCntrl.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:51 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetAccessControl
function either enables or disables the use of the access control list at connection
setups.
.LP
.\" $Header: XEnAccsCntrl.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:48 mento Exp $
The
.PN XEnableAccessControl
function enables the use of the access control list at connection setups.
.LP
.\" $Header: XDisAcsCntrl.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:44 mento Exp $
The
.PN XDisableAccessControl
function disables the use of the access control list at connection setups.
.LP
.ds fd .PN XAddHost
.ds fe .PN XAddHosts
.ds ff .PN XRemoveHost
.ds fg .PN XRemoveHosts
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd ,
\*(fe ,
\*(ff ,
and
\*(fg
are
.PN BadAlloc
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.ds fd .PN XSetAccessControl
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are

.PN BadAlloc
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.ds fd .PN XEnableAccessControl
.ds fe .PN XDisableAccessControl
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
and
\*(fe
is
.PN BadAccess .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badaccess4.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:51 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAccess
A client attempted
to modify the access control list from other than the local
(or otherwise authorized) host.
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
