.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XChangeKeyboardControl 3X 
.SH NAME
XChangeKeyboardControl, XGetKeyboardControl, XAutoRepeatOn, XAutoRepeatOff, XBell, 
XQueryKeymap \- manipulate keyboard settings
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XChKeyCon.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:10:56 mento Exp $
XChangeKeyboardControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIvalue_mask\fP\^, \fIvalues\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIvalue_mask\fP\^;
.br
      XKeyboardControl *\fIvalues\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetKeybdCnt.f,v 11.6 87/08/15 12:13:30 mento Exp $
XGetKeyboardControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIvalues_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XKeyboardState *\fIvalues_return\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XAutoReptOn.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:10:40 mento Exp $
XAutoRepeatOn\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XAutoReptOff.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:10:39 mento Exp $
XAutoRepeatOff\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XBell.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:10:43 mento Exp $
XBell\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIpercent\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIpercent\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XQueryKeybd.f,v 11.8 87/09/04 20:49:02 mento Exp $
XQueryKeymap\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIkeys_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      char \fIkeys_return\fP[32]\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: keys.a,v 11.7 87/09/09 16:09:33 mento Exp $
.IP \fIkeys_return\fP 1i
Returns an array of bytes that identifies which keys are pressed down.
Each bit represents one key of the keyboard.
.\" $Header: percent.a,v 11.5 87/08/14 13:24:27 mento Exp $
.IP \fIpercent\fP 1i
Specifies the base volume for the bell,
which can range from -100 to 100 inclusive. 
.\" $Header: value_mask1.a,v 11.4 87/08/28 12:44:27 mento Exp $
.IP \fIvalue_mask\fP 1i
Specifies one value for each one bit in the mask (least to most
significant bit). 
The values are associated with the set of keys for the previously specified
keyboard.
.\" $Header: values2.a,v 11.3 87/06/02 11:37:30 jg Exp $
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the structure
.PN XKeyboardControl .
.\" $Header: values3.a,v 11.5 87/09/09 16:13:59 mento Exp $
.IP \fIvalues_return\fP 1i
Returns the current keyboard parameter in the specified
.PN XKeyboardState 
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XChKeyCon.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:59 mento Exp $
The
.PN XChangeKeyboardControl
function controls the keyboard characteristics defined by the
.PN XKeyboardControl
structure.
.ds fd .PN XChangeKeyboardControl
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadMatch
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetKeybdCnt.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:33 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetKeyboardControl
function returns the current control values for the keyboard to the
.PN XKeyboardState
structure.
.LP
.\" $Header: XAutoReptOn.d,v 1.2 87/09/02 15:15:34 mento Exp $
The
.PN XAutoRepeatOn
function turns on auto-repeat for the keyboard on the specified display.
.LP
.\" $Header: XAutoReptOff.d,v 1.2 87/09/02 15:16:10 mento Exp $
The
.PN XAutoRepeatOff
function turns off auto-repeat for the keyboard on the specified display.
.LP
.\" $Header: XBell.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:44 mento Exp $
The
.PN XBell
function rings the bell on the keyboard on the specified display, if possible.
.LP
.\" $Header: XQueryKeybd.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:48 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryKeymap
function returns a bit vector for the keyboard, where each one bit
indicates that the corresponding key is currently pressed down.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeKeyboardMapping(3X),
XSetPointerMapping(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
