.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XClearArea 3X 
.SH NAME
XClearArea, XClearWindow \- clear windows
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XClearArea.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:11:10 mento Exp $
XClearArea\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^, \fIexposures\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      Bool \fIexposures\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XClear.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:11:09 mento Exp $
XClearWindow\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: exposures.a,v 11.3 87/05/29 07:36:40 jg Exp $
.IP \fIexposures\fP 1i
Specifies a boolean value of 
.PN True 
or 
.PN False .
.\" $Header: w.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:22 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID.
.\" $Header: widtheight.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:26 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height.
.\" $Header: xy.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:46 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XClearArea.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:13 mento Exp $
The
.PN XClearArea
function clears a rectangular area in the specified window according to the
specified dimensions.
.ds fd .PN XClearArea
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow ,
.PN BadMatch ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XClear.d,v 1.3 87/09/09 15:07:05 mento Exp $
The
.PN XClearWindow
function clears the entire area in the specified window and is
equivalent to
.PN XClearArea
(display, w, 0, 0, 0, 0, 
.PN False ).
.ds fd .PN XClearWindow
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow ,
.PN BadMatch ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCopyArea(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
