.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XCopyArea 3X 
.SH NAME
XCopyArea, XCopyPlane \- copy areas
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XCopyArea.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:11:20 mento Exp $
XCopyArea\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsrc\fP\^, \fIdest\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^,  \fIdest_x\fP\^, \fIdest_y\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fIsrc\fP\^, \fIdest\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIdest_x\fP\^, \fIdest_y\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XCopyPlane.f,v 11.7 87/08/15 12:11:23 mento Exp $
XCopyPlane\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsrc\fP\^, \fIdest\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^, \fIdest_x\fP\^, \fIdest_y\fP\^, \fIplane\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fIsrc\fP\^, \fIdest\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIdest_x\fP\^, \fIdest_y\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIplane\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: destxy1.a,v 1.1 87/09/10 20:25:07 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdest_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates of the destination rectangle relative to
its origin.
These coordinates specify the upper left corner of the destination rectangle.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: plane.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:14 mento Exp $
.IP \fIplane\fP 1i
Specifies the bit-plane.
You must set exactly one bit.
.\" $Header: srcdest.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:00:56 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsrc\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest\fP 1i
Specify the source and destination rectangles to be combined. 
.\" $Header: srcxy.a,v 11.3 87/09/10 20:26:57 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsrc_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIsrc_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates of the source rectangle relative to
its origin.
These coordinates specify the upper left corner of the source rectangle.
.\" $Header: widtheight.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:26 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XCopyArea.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 10:25:30 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCopyArea
function combines the specified rectangle of src with the specified rectangle of
dest.
.ds fd .PN XCopyArea
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.LP
.\" $Header: XCopyPlane.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:23 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCopyPlane
function combines a single bit plane of the specified rectangle
of src with the specified rectangle of dest.
.ds fd .PN XCopyPlane
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadMatch ,
.PN BadValue ,
and
.PN BadGC .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XClearArea(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
