.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XChangePointerControl 3X 
.SH NAME
XChangePointerControl, XGetPointerControl \- control pointer 
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XChPointCon.f,v 11.8 87/09/04 20:45:12 mento Exp $
XChangePointerControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIdo_accel\fP\^, \fIdo_threshold\fP\^, \fIaccel_numerator\fP\^, 
.br
                        \fIaccel_denominator\fP\^, \fIthreshold\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Bool \fIdo_accel\fP\^, \fIdo_threshold\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIaccel_numerator\fP\^, \fIaccel_denominator\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIthreshold\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetPntrCnt.f,v 11.9 87/08/15 12:13:37 mento Exp $
XGetPointerControl\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIaccel_numerator_return\fP\^, \fIaccel_denominator_return\fP\^, 
.br
                       \fIthreshold_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIaccel_numerator_return\fP\^, *\fIaccel_denominator_return\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIthreshold_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: acceldenom.a,v 11.4 87/05/28 05:00:49 jg Exp $
.IP \fIaccel_denominator\fP 1i
Specifies the denominator for the acceleration multiplier.
.\" $Header: acceldenomrt.a,v 1.3 87/08/11 11:22:42 mento Locked $
.IP \fIaccel_denominator_return\fP 1i
Returns the denominator for the acceleration multiplier.
.\" $Header: accelnum.a,v 11.3 87/03/28 10:53:35 mento Exp $
.IP \fIaccel_numerator\fP 1i
Specifies the numerator for the acceleration multiplier.
.\" $Header: accelnumret.a,v 1.3 87/08/11 11:22:08 mento Exp $
.IP \fIaccel_numerator_return\fP 1i
Returns the numerator for the acceleration multiplier.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: doaccel.a,v 11.3 87/05/28 04:44:18 jg Exp $
.IP \fIdo_accel\fP 1i
Specifies a boolean value that controls whether the values for the accel_numerator
or accel_denominator are set.
You can pass one of these constants:
.PN True
or
.PN False .
.\" $Header: dothreshold.a,v 11.4 87/05/28 05:04:49 jg Exp $
.IP \fIdo_threshold\fP 1i
Specifies a boolean value that controls whether the value for the 
accel_numerator or accel_denominator are set.
You can pass one of these constants:
.PN True
or
.PN False .
.\" $Header: threshold.a,v 11.3 87/03/28 11:01:20 mento Exp $
.IP \fIthreshold\fP 1i
Specifies the acceleration threshold.
.\" $Header: thresholdret.a,v 1.3 87/08/11 11:23:45 mento Exp $
.IP \fIthreshold_return\fP 1i
Returns the acceleration threshold.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XChPointCon.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:00 mento Exp $
The
.PN XChangePointerControl
function defines how the pointing device moves.
.ds fd .PN XChangePointerControl
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetPntrCnt.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:39 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetPointerControl
function returns the pointer's current acceleration multiplier
and acceleration threshold.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
