.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XCreatePixmap 3X 
.SH NAME
XCreatePixmap, XFreePixmap \- create and destroy pixmaps
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XCrePmap.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:11:29 mento Exp $
Pixmap XCreatePixmap\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^, \fIdepth\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIdepth\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XFreePixmap.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:12:48 mento Exp $
XFreePixmap\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIpixmap\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Pixmap \fIpixmap\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: d_crepix.a,v 1.1 87/09/09 16:28:47 mento Exp $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies which screen the pixmap is created on. 
.\" $Header: depth1.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:55:17 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies the depth of the pixmap.
The depth must be supported by the root of the specified drawable.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIpixmap\fP 1i
Specifies the pixmap.
.\" $Header: widtheight.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:26 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XCrePmap.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 08:36:46 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCreatePixmap
function creates a pixmap of the width, height, and depth you specified.
It also assigns the pixmap ID to it.
It is valid to pass a window whose class
is
.PN InputOnly
to the drawable argument.
.ds fd .PN XCreatePixmap
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadAlloc ,
.PN BadDrawable ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XFreePixmap.d,v 1.4 87/09/09 16:37:31 mento Exp $
The
.PN XFreePixmap
function first deletes the association between the pixmap ID and the pixmap.
Then, the X server frees the pixmap storage when no other resources reference 
it.
The pixmap should never be referenced again.
.ds fd .PN XFreePixmap
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadPixmap .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badpixmap.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:16 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadPixmap
A value for a Pixmap argument does not name a defined Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
