.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XCreateGC 3X 
.SH NAME
XCreateGC, XCopyGC, XChangeGC, XFreeGC \- create and free graphics contexts
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XCreateGC.f,v 11.5 87/08/22 08:12:37 mento Exp $
GC XCreateGC\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIvaluemask_create\fP\^, \fIvalues\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIvaluemask_create\fP\^;
.br
      XGCValues *\^\fIvalues\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XCopyGC.f,v 11.6 87/08/22 08:14:47 mento Exp $
XCopyGC\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsrc\fP\^, \fIvaluemask_copy\fP\^, \fIdest\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIsrc\fP\^, \fIdest\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIvaluemask_copy\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XChGC.f,v 11.7 87/08/28 13:58:06 mento Exp $
XChangeGC\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIvaluemask_change\fP\^, \fIvalues\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIvaluemask_change\fP\^;
.br
      XGCValues *\^\fIvalues\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XFreeGC.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:12:47 mento Exp $
XFreeGC\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: dest.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:55:19 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdest\fP 1i
Specifies the destination graphics context.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: src.a,v 11.3 87/05/18 07:00:13 jg Exp $
.IP \fIsrc\fP 1i
Specifies the components of the source graphics context.
.\" $Header: valuemask3.a,v 1.2 87/08/22 08:17:53 mento Exp $
.IP \fIvaluemask_change\fP 1i
Specifies which components in the graphics context are to be changed 
using information in the
.PN XGCValues
structure.
This argument is the bitwise inclusive OR of one or more of the valid 
GC component masks.
.\" $Header: valuemask2.a,v 1.2 87/08/22 08:15:26 mento Exp $
.IP \fIvaluemask_copy\fP 1i
Specifies which components in the source graphics context are to be 
copied to the destination graphics context.
This argument is the bitwise inclusive OR of one or more of the valid 
GC component masks.
.\" $Header: valuemask1.a,v 11.5 87/08/22 08:13:20 mento Exp $
.IP \fIvaluemask_create\fP 1i
Specifies which components in the graphics context are to be set using information in the
.PN XGCValues
structure.
This argument is the bitwise inclusive OR of one or more of the valid 
GC component masks.
.\" $Header: values1.a,v 11.3 87/09/11 15:59:28 mento Exp $
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the 
.PN XGCValues 
structure.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XCreateGC.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:33 mento Locked $
The
.PN XCreateGC
function creates a graphics context and returns a GC.
.ds fd .PN XCreateGC
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadPixmap ,
.PN BadAlloc ,
.PN BadMatch ,
and
.PN BadFont.
.LP
.\" $Header: XCopyGC.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 09:52:22 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCopyGC
function copies the specified components from the source graphics context
to the destination graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XCopyGC
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC ,
.PN BadAlloc ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XChGC.d,v 1.4 87/09/11 16:05:40 mento Exp $
The
.PN XChangeGC
function changes the components specified by the valuemask_change argument for
the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XChangeGC
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC ,
.PN BadPixmap ,
.PN BadFont ,
.PN BadMatch ,
.PN BadAlloc ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XFreeGC.d,v 1.2 87/09/09 15:46:17 mento Exp $
The
.PN XFreeGC
function destroys the specified graphics context as well as the shadow copy.
.LP
.ds fd .PN XFreeGC
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadGC .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badfont.e,v 1.2 87/09/09 18:08:11 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadFont
A value for a Font or GContext argument does not name a defined Font.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badpixmap.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:16 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadPixmap
A value for a Pixmap argument does not name a defined Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XQueryBestSize(3X),
XSetArcMode(3X),
XSetClipOrigin(3X),
XSetFillStyle(3X),
XSetFont(3X),
XSetLineAttributes(3X),
XSetState(3X),
XSetTile(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
