.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XCreateFontCursor 3X 
.SH NAME
XCreateFontCursor, XCreatePixmapCursor, XCreateGlyphCursor \- create cursors
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XCursor.f,v 11.11 87/09/07 12:37:37 mento Exp $
#include <X11/cursorfont.h>
.sp 6p
Cursor XCreateFontCursor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIshape\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIshape\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XCreCursor.f,v 11.6 87/09/02 09:48:55 mento Exp $
Cursor XCreatePixmapCursor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsource\fP\^, \fImask\fP\^, \fIforeground_color\fP\^, \fIbackground_color\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Pixmap \fIsource\fP\^;
.br
      Pixmap \fImask\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIforeground_color\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIbackground_color\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XCreateGlCur.f,v 11.8 87/09/04 09:12:43 mento Exp $
Cursor XCreateGlyphCursor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIsource_font\fP\^, \fImask_font\fP\^, \fIsource_char\fP\^, \fImask_char\fP\^, \fIforeground_color\fP\^,  
.br
\fIbackground_color\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Font \fIsource_font\fP\^, \fImask_font\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIsource_char\fP\^, \fImask_char\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIforeground_color\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIbackground_color\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: bcolor.a,v 11.3 87/09/02 09:52:56 mento Exp $
.IP \fIbackground_color\fP 1i
Specifies the red, green, and blue (RGB) values for the background of the
source.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fImask\fP 1i
Specifies the source bits of the cursor that are to be displayed.
You can pass the constant
.PN None .
.\" $Header: mchar.a,v 11.3 87/09/02 10:09:44 mento Exp $
.IP \fImask_char\fP 1i
Specifies the glyph character for the mask. 
.\" $Header: mfont.a,v 11.4 87/09/02 10:05:27 mento Exp $
.IP \fImask_font\fP 1i
Specifies the font for the mask glyph. 
You can pass the constant
.PN None .
.\" $Header: schar.a,v 11.4 87/09/07 12:38:40 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsource_char\fP 1i
Specifies the character glyph for the source.
.\" $Header: scolor.a,v 11.3 87/09/02 09:52:08 mento Exp $
.IP \fIforeground_color\fP 1i
Specifies the red, green, and blue (RGB) values for the foreground of the
source. 
.\" $Header: sfont.a,v 11.3 87/09/02 10:04:08 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsource_font\fP 1i
Specifies the font for the source glyph.
.IP \fIshape\fP 1i
Specifies the shape in which you want to create the standard cursor.
.\" $Header: source.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:00:48 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsource\fP 1i
Specifies the shape of the source cursor.
.\" *** JIM: NEED TO CHECK THIS. ***
.\" $Header: xy.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:46 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XCursor.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:35 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCreateFontCursor
function creates a cursor from a standard font.
.ds fd .PN XCreateFontCursor
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadAlloc
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XCreCursor.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:26 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCreatePixmapCursor
function creates a cursor and returns the cursor ID associated with it.
.ds fd .PN XCreatePixmapCursor
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadAlloc ,
.PN BadMatch ,
and
.PN BadPixmap .
.LP
.\" $Header: XCreateGlCur.d,v 1.2 87/08/31 09:28:18 mento Exp $
The
.PN XCreateGlyphCursor
function is similar to
.PN XCreatePixmapCursor
and creates a cursor from font glyphs.
For
.PN XCreateGlyphCursor ,
however,
the source and mask bitmaps are obtained from the specified font glyphs.
.ds fd .PN XCreateGlyphCursor
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadAlloc ,
.PN BadFont ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: badfont.e,v 1.2 87/09/09 18:08:11 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadFont
A value for a Font or GContext argument does not name a defined Font.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badpixmap.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:16 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadPixmap
A value for a Pixmap argument does not name a defined Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDefineCursor(3X),
XRecolorCursor(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
