.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XChangeSaveSet 3X 
.SH NAME
XChangeSaveSet, XAddToSaveSet, XRemoveFromSaveSet \- change a client's save set
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XChSaveSet.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:10:59 mento Exp $
XChangeSaveSet\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^, \fIchange_mode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIchange_mode\fP\^;
.LP
XAddToSaveSet\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw_add\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw_add\fP\^;
.LP
XRemoveFromSaveSet\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw_remove\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw_remove\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: changemode.a,v 11.7 87/09/10 20:29:11 mento Exp $
.IP \fIchange_mode\fP 1i
Specifies the mode.
You can pass one of the constants
.PN SetModeInsert 
or 
.PN SetModeDelete .
If
.PN SetModeInsert ,
.PN XChangeSaveSet 
adds the window to this client's save-set. 
If
.PN SetModeDelete ,
.PN XChangeSaveSet 
deletes the window from this client's save-set.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: w_save_set.a,v 1.3 87/09/11 16:52:14 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw_add\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID of the window whose children you want to add 
to the client's save-set.
.\" $Header: w_save_set1.a,v 1.2 87/09/11 16:52:54 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw_remove\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID of the window whose children you want to remove 
frem the client's save-set.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XChSaveSet.d,v 1.3 87/08/28 12:01:11 mento Exp $
Depending
on the constant you passed to the change_mode argument,
the
.PN XChangeSaveSet
function either adds or removes a subwindow from the client's save-set. 
.ds fd .PN XChangeSaveSet
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow ,
.PN BadMatch ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XAddSaveSet.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:29 mento Exp $
The
.PN XAddToSaveSet
function adds the children of the specified window to the client's save-set.
.ds fd .PN XAddToSaveSet
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow 
and
.PN BadMatch .
.LP
.\" $Header: XRmvSaveSet.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:03 mento Exp $
The
.PN XRemoveFromSaveSet
function removes the children of the specified window from the client's save-set.
.ds fd .PN XRemoveFromSaveSet
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow
and
.PN BadMatch .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XReparentWindow(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
