.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XDrawLine 3X 
.SH NAME
XDrawLine, XDrawLines, XDrawSegments \- draw lines and polygons
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XLine.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:14:08 mento Exp $
XDrawLine\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIx1\fP\^, \fIy1\fP\^, \fIx2\fP\^, \fIy2\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx1\fP\^, \fIy1\fP\^, \fIx2\fP\^, \fIy2\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XLines.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:14:09 mento Exp $
XDrawLines\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIpoints\fP\^, \fInpoints\fP\^, \fImode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      XPoint *\fIpoints\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInpoints\fP\^;
.br
      int \fImode\fP\^; 
.LP
.\" $Header: XSegments.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:15:41 mento Exp $
XDrawSegments\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIsegments\fP\^, \fInsegments\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      XSegment *\fIsegments\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInsegments\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: mode.a,v 11.7 87/09/09 17:41:31 mento Exp $
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies the coordinate mode. 
.PN CoordModeOrigin
treats a coordinates as related to the origin,
while
.PN CoordModePrevious 
treates all coordinates after the first as relative to the previous point.
.\" $Header: npoints.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:58:35 mento Exp $
.IP \fInpoints\fP 1i
Specifies the number of points in the array.
.\" $Header: nsegments.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:58:42 mento Exp $
.IP \fInsegments\fP 1i
Specifies the number of segments in the array.
.\" $Header: points.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:30 mento Exp $
.IP \fIpoints\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to an array of points.
.\" $Header: segments.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:00:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsegments\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to an array of segments.
.\" $Header: x1y1x2y2.a,v 11.3 87/09/01 18:25:46 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx1\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy1\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIx2\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy2\fP 1i
Specify the points used to connect the line.
Thus,
.PN XDrawLine 
draws a line connecting point x1, y1 to point x2, y2.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XLine.d,v 1.4 87/09/09 17:34:00 mento Exp $
The
.PN XDrawLine
funtion draws a single line between two points in the specified drawable.
.LP
The
.PN XDrawLines
function draws multiple lines in the specified drawable.
.LP
The
.PN XDrawSegments
function draws multiple, but not necessarily connected, lines in the 
specified drawable.
.LP
.ds fd .PN XDrawLine
.ds fe .PN XDrawLines
.ds ff .PN XDrawSegments
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd ,
\*(fe ,
and
\*(ff
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.LP
.PN XDrawLines
can also return
.PN BadValue .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawArc(3X),
XDrawPoint(3X),
XDrawRectangle(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
