.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XDrawPoint 3X 
.SH NAME
XDrawPoint, XDrawPoints \- draw points
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XPoint.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:14:47 mento Exp $
XDrawPoint\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XPoints.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:14:49 mento Exp $
XDrawPoints\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIpoints\fP\^, \fInpoints\fP\^, \fImode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      XPoint *\fIpoints\fP\^;
.br
      int \fInpoints\fP\^;
.br
      int \fImode\fP\^; 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: mode.a,v 11.7 87/09/09 17:41:31 mento Exp $
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies the coordinate mode. 
.PN CoordModeOrigin
treats a coordinates as related to the origin,
while
.PN CoordModePrevious 
treates all coordinates after the first as relative to the previous point.
.\" $Header: npoints.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:58:35 mento Exp $
.IP \fInpoints\fP 1i
Specifies the number of points in the array.
.\" $Header: points.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:30 mento Exp $
.IP \fIpoints\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to an array of points.
.\" $Header: xy_point.a,v 1.1 87/09/01 18:20:43 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates where you want the point drawn.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XPoint.d,v 1.2 87/09/01 18:23:04 mento Exp $
The
.PN XDrawPoint
function uses the foreground pixel and function components of the graphics context to
draw a single point into the specified drawable, while
.PN XDrawPoints
draws multiple points into the specified drawable.
These functions are not affected by the tile or stipple in the graphics context.
.LP
.ds fd .PN XDrawPoint
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
and 
.PN BadMatch .
.ds fe .PN XDrawPoints
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
.PN BadValue ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawArc(3X),
XDrawLine(3X),
XDrawRectangle(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
