.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XDrawRectangle 3X 
.SH NAME
XDrawRectangle, XDrawRectangles \- draw rectyangles
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XRectangle.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:15:23 mento Exp $
XDrawRectangle\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XRectangles.f,v 11.6 87/09/01 18:36:54 mento Exp $
XDrawRectangles\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIrectangles\fP\^, \fInrectangles\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      XRectangle \fIrectangles\fP\^[\^]\^;
.br
      int \fInrectangles\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: nrectangles.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:58:38 mento Exp $
.IP \fInrectangles\fP 1i
Specifies the number of rectangles in the array.
.\" $Header: rectangles.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:00:03 mento Exp $
.IP \fIrectangles\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to an array of rectangles.
.\" $Header: widtheight4.a,v 1.1 87/09/01 18:34:14 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height that define the outline of the rectangle.
.\" $Header: xy_rect.a,v 1.1 87/09/01 18:31:53 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates that define the upper left corner of
the rectangle.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XRectangle.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:58 mento Exp $
The
.PN XDrawRectangle
and
.PN XDrawRectangles
functions draw the outlines of the specified rectangle or rectangles as
if a five-point PolyLine were specified for each rectangle:
.IP
[x,y,] [x+width,y] [x+width,y+height] [x,y+height] [x,y]
.LP
.ds fd .PN XDrawRectangle
.ds fe .PN XDrawRectangles
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
and
\*(fe
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XDrawArc(3X),
XDrawLine(3X),
XDrawPoint(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
