.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XrmGetSearchList 3X 
.SH NAME
XrmGetSearchList, XrmGetSearchResource \- get resource database levels
.SH SYNTAX
void XrmGetSearchList\^(\^\fInames\fP, \fIclasses\fP, \fIlist\fP\^)
.br
      XrmNameList  \fInames\fP\^;
.br
      XrmClassList \fIclasses\fP\^;
.br
      XrmSearchList \fIist\fP\^;
.LP
XGetSearchResource\^(\^\fIscreen\fP, \fIlist\fP, \fIname\fP, \fIclass\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIvalue\fP\^)
.br
      Screen *\fIscreen\fP\^;
.br
      XrmSearchList \fIlist\fP\^;
.br
      XrmName \fIname\fP\^;
.br
      XrmClass \fIclass\fP\^;
.br
      XrmAtom \fItype\fP\^;
.br
      XrmValuePtr \fIvalue\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies the resource class.
.IP \fIclasses\fP 1i
Specifies a list of resource classes.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies the list of database levels that are to be searched.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies an argument to which the list of database levels is returned.
.IP \fIname\fP 1i
Specifies the resource name.
.IP \fInames\fP 1i
Specifies a list of resource names.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies the screen.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies data representation type.
.IP \fIvalues\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to which the matched resource is returned.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.PN XrmGetSearchList
function takes a list of names and classes and returns a list of
database levels where a match might occur.
The returned list is a best-to-worst order and uses the same algorithm as
.PN XrmGetResource 
for determining precedence.
.LP
The
.PN XrmGetSearchResource
function searches the specified database levels for the resource that is
fully identified by the specified name and class.
If it finds the resource,
.PN XrmGetSearchResource
first converts it to the specified type and then returns this converted
resource to the value argument.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmConvert(3X),
XrmGetDataBase(3X),
XrmPutResource
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
