.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XrmGetDataBase 3X 
.SH NAME
XrmGetDataBase, XrmLoadDataBase, XrmPutDataBase, XrmMergeDataBases \- manipulate resource data bases
.SH SYNTAX
XrmResourceDataBase XrmGetDataBase(\^\fIdb_filename\fP\^)
.br
      char *\fIdb_filename\fP\^;
.LP
XrmResourceDataBase XrmLoadDataBase\^(\^\fIdata\fP\^)
.br
     char *\fIdata\fP\^;
.LP
void XrmPutDataBase(\^\fIdb_filename\fP, \fIdb\fP\^)
.br
      char *\fIdb_filename\fP\^;
.br
      XrmResourceDataBase \fIdb\fP\^;
.LP
void XrmMergeDataBases(\^\fInew\fP, \fIinto\fP\^)
.br
      XrmResourceDataBase \fInew\fP, *\fIinto\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Specifies the data string.
.IP \fIdb\fP 1i
Specifies the descriptor of the resource database.
.IP \fIdb_filename\fP 1i
Specifies the resource database file name.
.IP \fIinto\fP 1i
Specifies the descriptor of the resource database into which the new 
database will be merged.
.IP \fInew\fP 1i
Specifies the descriptor of the resource database to be merged into the 
existing database.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XrmGDBase.d,v 1.2 87/09/09 18:27:18 mento Exp $
The
.PN XrmGetDataBase
function retrieves a database a file on disk.
.LP
The
.PN XrmLoadDataBase
adds the resources in the specified null-terminated string.
.PN XrmLoadDataBase
is similar to
.PN XrmGetDataBase ,
except that it reads the information out of a string instead of a file.
.LP
.\" $Header: XrmPDBase.d,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:30:48 mento Exp $
The
.PN XrmPutDataBase
function stores a copy of the application's current database into a file.
.LP
.\" $Header: XrmMDBase.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:22:25 mento Exp $
The
.PN XrmMergeDataBases
function merges the contents of one database into another.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmConvert(3X),
XrmGetSearchList(3X),
XrmPutDataBase(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
