.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XGetWindowAttributes 3X 
.SH NAME
XGetWindowAttributes, XGetGeometry \- get current window attribute or geometry
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XGetAttr.f,v 11.9 87/08/15 12:12:51 mento Exp $
Status XGetWindowAttributes\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^, \fIwindow_attributes_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      XWindowAttributes *\fIwindow_attributes_return\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetGeometry.f,v 11.12 87/09/01 10:59:22 mento Exp $
Status XGetGeometry\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \^\fIroot_return\fP\^, \fIx_return\fP\^, \fIy_return\fP\^, \fIwidth_return\fP\^, 
.br
                      \fIheight_return\fP\^, \fIborder_width_return\fP\^, \fIdepth_return\fP\^)
.br
        Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
        Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
        Window *\fIroot_return\fP\^;
.br
        int *\fIx_return\fP\^, *\fIy_return\fP\^;
.br
        unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP\^, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.br
        unsigned int *\fIborder_width_return\fP\^;
.br
        unsigned int *\fIdepth_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIborder_width_return\fP 1i
Returns the border width in pixels. 
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.IP \fIdepth_return\fP 1i
Returns the depth of the pixmap (bits per pixel for the object).
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: root.a,v 11.7 87/09/09 18:50:21 mento Exp $
.IP \fIroot_return\fP 1i
Returns the root window ID for the specified window.
.\" $Header: w.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:22 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID.
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Returns the drawable's dimensions (width and height).
.\" $Header: windatt.a,v 11.5 87/09/09 19:02:54 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwindow_attributes_return\fP 1i
Rturns the specified window's attributes in the
.PN XWindowAttributes
structure.
.\" $Header: getxy.a,v 1.9 87/09/10 20:26:11 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx_return\fP 1i
.IP \fIy_return\fP 1i
Returns the x and y coordinates of the drawable.
These coordinates define the location of the drawable.
For a window, 
these coordinates specify the upper left outer corner relative to
its parent's origin.
For pixmaps, these coordinates are always zero (0).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XGetAttr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:20 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetWindowAttributes
function returns the current attributes for the specified window to an
.PN XWindowAttributes
structure.
.ds fd .PN XGetWindowAttributes
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadWindow .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetGeometry.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:25 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetGeometry
function returns the root ID and the current geometry of the drawable.
.ds fd .PN XGetGeometry
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadDrawable .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XQueryPointer(3X),
XQueryTree(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
