.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XGetVisualInfo 3X 
.SH NAME
XGetVisualInfo, XMatchVisualInfo \- obtain visual information
.SH SYNTAX
XVisualInfo *XGetVisualInfo\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIvinfo_mask\fP, \fIvinfo_template\fP, \fInitems_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      long \fIvinfo_mask\fP\^;
.br
      XVisualInfo *\fIvinfo_template\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fInitems_return\fP\^;
.LP
Status XMatchVisualInfo\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIscreen\fP, \fIdepth\fP, \fIclass\fP, \fIvinfo_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIscreen\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIdepth\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIclass\fP\^;
.br
      XVisualInfo *\fIvinfo_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies the class of the screen.
.IP \fIdepth\fP 1i
Specifies the depth of the screen.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fInitems_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of matching visual structures.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies the screen.
.IP \fIvinfo_mask\fP 1i
Specifies the visual mask value.
.IP \fIvinfo_return\fP 1i
Returns the match visual information.
.IP \fIvinfo_template\fP 1i
Specifies the visual attributes that are to be used in matching the visual
structures.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XGetVInfo.d,v 1.2 87/09/03 14:13:51 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetVisualInfo
function returns a list of visual structures that match the attributes specified
by the template argument.
If no visual structures match the template using the specified vinfo_mask,
.PN XGetVisualInfo
returns a NULL.
.LP
.\" $Header: XMatVInfo.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:21 mento Exp $
The
.PN XMatchVisualInfo
function obtains the visual information that matches the specified depth and
class of the screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
