.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XInternAtom 3X 
.SH NAME
XInternAtom, XGetAtomName \- create and return atom names
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XInternAtom.f,v 11.5 87/09/04 16:12:15 mento Exp $
Atom XInternAtom\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIatom_name\fP\^, \fIonly_if_exists\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIatom_name\fP\^;
.br
      Bool \fIonly_if_exists\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetAtomName.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:12:50 mento Exp $
char *XGetAtomName\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIatom\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIatom\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: atom.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:53:57 mento Exp $
.IP \fIatom\fP 1i
Specifies the atom associated with the string name you want returned.
.\" $Header: atom_name.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:53:59 mento Exp $
.IP \fIatom_name\fP 1i
Specifies the name associated with the atom you want returned.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: onlyifexist.a,v 11.4 87/03/08 02:46:04 mento Exp $
.IP \fIonly_if_exists\fP 1i
Specifies a boolean value that indicates whether
.PN XInternAtom
creates the atom.
You can pass one of the constants
.PN True
or
.PN False .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XInternAtom.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:59 mento Exp $
The
.PN XInternAtom
function returns the atom identifier associated with the string you passed
to the atom_name
argument.
.ds fd .PN XInternAtom
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadAlloc 
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetAtomName.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:19 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetAtomName
function returns the name associated with the atom identifier you passed to the atom
argument.
You previously obtained the atom identifier by calling
.PN XInternAtom .
.ds fd .PN XGetAtomName
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadAtom .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: badatom.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:55 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAtom
A value for an Atom argument does not name a defined Atom.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XGetWindowProperty(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
