.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XLookupKeysym 3X 
.SH NAME
XLookupKeysym, XRefreshKeyboardMapping, XLookupString, XRebindKeySym \- handle keyboard input events
.SH SYNTAX
KeySym XLookupKeysym(\^\fIevent_key\fP, \fIindex\fP\^)
.br
      XKeyEvent *\fIevent_key\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIindex\fP\^;
.LP
XRefreshKeyboardMapping(\^\fIevent_map\fP\^)
.br
      XMappingEvent *\fIevent_map\fP\^;
.LP
int XLookupString(\^\fIevent_struct\fP, \fIbuffer_return\fP, \fIbytes_buffer\fP, \fIkeysym_return\fP, \fIstatus_return\fP\^)
.br
      XKeyEvent *\fIevent_struct\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIbuffer_return\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIbytes_buffer\fP\^;
.br
      KeySym *\fIkeysym_return\fP\^;
.br
      XComposeStatus *\fIstatus_return\fP\^;
.LP
XRebindKeysym(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIkeysym\fP, \fIlist\fP, \fImod_count\fP, \fIstring\fP, \fIbytes_string\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      KeySym \fIkeysym\fP\^;
.br
      KeySym *\fIlist\fP\^;
.br
      int \fImod_count\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned char *\fIstring\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIbytes_string\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIbuffer_return\fP 1i
Returns the translated characters.
.IP \fIbytes_buffer\fP 1i
Specifies the length of the buffer.
No more than bytes_buffer of translation are returned.
.IP \fIbytes_string\fP 1i
Specifies the length of the string.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIevent_key\fP 1i
Specifies the key event that is to be used.
This event is either a
.PN KeyPress
event or a
.PN KeyRelease
event.
.IP \fIevent_map\fP 1i
Specifies the mapping event that is to be used.
.IP \fIevent_struct\fP 1i
Specifies the key event structure to be used:
.PN XKeyPressedEvent
or
.PN XKeyReleasedEvent .
.IP \fIindex\fP 1i
Specifies the index into the KeySyms table.
.IP \fIkeysym\fP 1i
Specifies the keysym to be rebound.
.IP \fIkeysym_return\fP 1i
If this argument is not 
.PN NULL , 
returns the keysym computed from the event.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to an array of keysyms that are being used as modifiers.
.IP \fImod_count\fP 1i
Specifies the number of modifiers in the modifier list.
.IP \fIstatus_return\fP 1i
Specifies either a pointer to the XCompose structure that is to contain 
compose key state information and that allows compose key processing to take 
place, or
.PN NULL .
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the string that is to be returned by 
.PN XLookupString .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XLKeysym.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:05 mento Exp $
The
.PN XLookupKeysym
function uses a given keyboard event and the index you specified to return
the KeySym from the list that corresponds to the keycode member in the
.PN XKeyPressedEvent
or
.PN XKeyReleasedEvent
structure.
.LP
.\" $Header: XRKMap.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:52 mento Exp $
The
.PN XRefreshKeyboardMapping
function refreshes the stored modifier and keymap information.
.LP
.\" $Header: XLookStr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:12 mento Exp $
The
.PN XLookupString
function is a convenience routine that
can be used to map a key event to
an ASCII string, using the modifier bits in the key event to deal with
shift, lock, and control.
.LP
.\" $Header: XRKeySym.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:53 mento Exp $
The
.PN XRebindKeysym
function can be used to rebind the meaning of a keysym for the
client.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XStringToKeysym(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
