.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XMapWindow 3X 
.SH NAME
XMapWinow, XMapRaised, XMapSubwindows \- map windows
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XMapWindow.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:14:22 mento Exp $
XMapWindow\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.LP
XMapRaised\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XMapSubs.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:14:21 mento Exp $
XMapSubwindows\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: w.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:22 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XMapWindow.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:18 mento Exp $
The
.PN XMapWindow
function
maps the window and all of its
subwindows which have had map requests.
.ds fd .PN XMapWindow
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadWindow .
.LP
.\" $Header: XMapRaised.d,v 1.2 87/08/31 11:05:05 mento Exp $
The
.PN XMapRaised
function
essentially is similar to
.PN XMapWindow
in that it maps the window and all of its
subwindows which have had map requests.
However, it also raises the specified window to the top of the stack.
.ds fd .PN XMapRaised
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadWindow .
.LP
.\" $Header: XMapSubs.d,v 1.2 87/09/10 11:45:48 mento Exp $
The
.PN XMapSubwindows
.IN "XMapSubwindows"
function maps all subwindows for a specified window in top-to-bottom stacking order.
The X server to generate an
.PN Expose
event on each newly displayed window.
.ds fd .PN XMapSubwindows
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadWindow .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XChangeWindowAttributes(3X),
XConfigureWindow(3X),
XCreateWindow(3X),
XDestroyWindow(3X),
XRaiseWindow(3X),
XUnmapWindow(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
