.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XParseGeometry 3X 
.SH NAME
XParseGeometry, XGeometry, XParseColor \- parse window geometry and color
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XParseGeom.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:14:41 mento Exp $
int XParseGeometry\^(\^\fIparsestring\fP\^, \fIx_return\fP\^, \fIy_return\fP\^, \fIwidth_return\fP\^, \fIheight_return\fP\^)
.br
      char *\fIparsestring\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIx_return\fP\^, *\fIy_return\fP\^; 
.br
      int *\fIwidth_return\fP\^, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGeometry.f,v 11.8 87/08/14 12:52:56 mento Exp $
int XGeometry\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIscreen\fP, \fIposition\fP\^, \fIdefault\fP\^, \fIbwidth\fP\^, \fIfwidth\fP\^, \fIfheight\fP\^, \fIxadder\fP\^, 
.br
                  \fIyadder\fP\^, \fIx_return\fP\^, \fIy_return\fP\^, \fIwidth_return\fP\^, \fIheight_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIscreen\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIposition\fP\^, *\fIdefault\fP\^;	
.br
      unsigned int \fIbwidth\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIfwidth\fP\^, \fIfheight\fP\^;	
.br
      int \fIxadder\fP\^, \fIyadder\fP\^;	
.br
      int *\fIx_return\fP\^, *\fIy_return\fP\^;
.br
        int *\fIwidth_return\fP\^, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XParseColor.f,v 11.11 87/08/15 12:14:31 mento Exp $
Status XParseColor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcmap\fP\^, \^\fIspec\fP\^, \fIscreen_def_return\fP\^)
.br
        Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
        Colormap \fIcmap\fP\^;
.br
        char *\fIspec\fP\^;
.br
        XColor *\fIscreen_def_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: bwidth.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:18 mento Exp $
.IP \fIbwidth\fP 1i
Specifies the border width.
.\" $Header: cmap.a,v 11.3 87/06/16 08:35:24 jg Exp $
.IP \fIcmap\fP 1i
Specifies the color map ID.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: fwdht.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:34 mento Exp $
.IP \fIfheight\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIfwidth\fP 1i
Specify the font height and width in pixels (increment size).
.\" $Header: parsestring.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:04 mento Exp $
.IP \fIparsestring\fP 1i
Specifies the string you want to parse.
.\" $Header: posdef.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:32 mento Exp $
.IP \fIposition\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdefault\fP 1i
Specify the geometry specifications.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies the screen.
.\" $Header: def.a,v 11.7 87/09/10 17:06:31 mento Exp $
.IP \fIscreen_def_return\fP 1i
Returns the values actually used in the color map.
.\" $Header: spec.a,v 11.5 87/08/28 07:39:39 mento Exp $
.IP \fIspec\fP 1i
Specifies the color name string.
Uppercase and lowercase characters are acceptable.
.\" $Header: widtheight2.a,v 1.3 87/09/10 11:55:47 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Return the width and height determined.
.\" $Header: xyadder.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:48 mento Exp $
.IP \fIxadder\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIyadder\fP 1i
Specify additional interior padding needed in the window.
.\" $Header: xy_ret.a,v 1.3 87/09/10 11:56:57 mento Exp $
.IP \fIx_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy_return\fP 1i
Returns the xoffset and yoffset determined.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XParseGeom.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:28 mento Exp $
The
.PN XParseGeometry
function parses standard window geometry strings.
.LP
.\" $Header: XGeometry.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:18 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGeometry
function parses window geometry given an argument and a default position.
.LP
.\" $Header: XParseColor.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:27 mento Exp $
The
.PN XParseColor
function parses color values.
.ds fd .PN XParseColor
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadColor .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badcolor.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:57 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadColor
A value for a Colormap argument does not name a defined Colormap.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
