.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XrmPutResource 3X 
.SH NAME
XrmPutResource, XrmGetResource \- store or get resources
.SH SYNTAX
void XrmPutResource(\^\fIdb\fP, \^\fIlist\fP, \fIdata_type\fP, \fIvalue_descriptor\fP\^)
.br
      XrmResourceDataBase \fI*db\fP\^;
.br
      XrmQuarkList \fIlist\fP\^;
.br
      XrmRepresentation \fIdata_type\fP\^;
.br
      XrmValuePtr \fIvalue_descriptor\fP\^;
.LP
void XrmGetResource(\^\fIscreen\fP, \fIdb\fP, \fIinher_name\fP, \fIinher_class\fP, \fItype\fP, \fIvalue_return\fP\^)
.br
      Screen \fIscreen\fP\^;
.br
      XrmResourceDataBase *\fIdb\fP\^;
.br
      XrmNameList \fIinher_name\fP\^;
.br
      XrmClassList \fIinher_class\fP\^;
.br
      XrmRepresentation \fItype\fP\^;
.br
      XrmValuePtr *\fIvalue_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIdata_type\fP 1i
Specifies the data representation of the resource to be stored.
.IP \fIdb\fP 1i
Specifies the descriptor of the resource database.
.IP \fIinher_class\fP 1i
Specifies the full inheritance class of the value being retrieved.
.IP \fIinher_name\fP 1i
Specifies the full inheritance name of the value being retrieved.
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies the partial name or class list of the resource to be stored.
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1i
Specifies the screen that is to be used for the lookup.
.IP \fItype\fP 1i
Specifies the representation type of the destination.
.IP \fIvalue_descriptor\fP 1i
Specifies the descriptor for the resource entry.
.IP \fIvalue_return\fP 1i
Returns the value, which represents a database address.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XrmPResource.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:22:28 mento Exp $
The
.PN XrmPutResource
function takes a partial name, a representation type, and a value.
The value is copied into the specified database db.
.LP
.\" $Header: XrmGResource.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:22:25 mento Exp $
The
.PN XrmGetResource
function retrieves a resource from the database.
It takes a full name/class pair, a destination resource representation,
and the address of a value (size/address pair).
The value returned points into database memory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XrmConvert(3X),
XrmGetDataBase(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
