.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XPutImage 3X 
.SH NAME
XPutImage, XGetImage, XGetSubImage \- transfer images
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XPutImage.f,v 11.7 87/08/15 12:14:56 mento Exp $
XPutImage\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIimage\fP\^, \fIsrc_x\fP, \fIsrc_y\fP, \fIdst_x\fP\^, \fIdst_y\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^)
.br
        Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
        Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
        GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
        XImage *\fIimage\fP\^;
.br
        int \fIsrc_x\fP\^, \fIsrc_y\fP\^;
.br
        int \fIdst_x\fP\^, \fIdst_y\fP\^;
.br
        unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetImage.f,v 11.7 87/08/15 12:13:04 mento Exp $
XImage *XGetImage\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^, \fIplane_mask\fP, \fIformat\fP\^)
.br
        Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
        Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
        int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
        unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
        long \fIplane_mask\fP\^;
.br
        int \fIformat\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetSImage.f,v 1.3 87/09/04 18:21:19 mento Exp $
XImage *XGetSubImage\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP\^, \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^, \fIplane_mask\fP, \fIformat\fP\^, \fIdest_image\fP\^, \fIdest_x\fP\^, \fIdest_y\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIx\fP\^, \fIy\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIplane_mask\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIformat\fP\^;
.br
      XImage *\fIdest_image\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIdest_x\fP\^, \fIdest_y\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: destxy1.a,v 1.1 87/09/10 20:25:07 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdest_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdest_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates of the destination rectangle relative to
its origin.
These coordinates specify the upper left corner of the destination rectangle.
These coordinates determine where the subimage will be placed within the
destination image.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIdst_x\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIdst_y\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates.
These are the coordinates of the subimage and are relative to the origin of the
drawable where the image will be drawn.
.IP \fIformat\fP 1i
Specifies the format for the image.
You can pass one of these constants:
.PN XYPixmap 
or 
.PN ZPixmap .
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: image.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:57 mento Exp $
.IP \fIimage\fP 1i
Specifies the image you want combined with the rectangle. 
.\" $Header: plane_mask.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:16 mento Exp $
.IP \fIplane_mask\fP 1i
Specifies the plane mask.
.\" *** JIM: NEED MORE INFO FOR THIS. ***
.IP \fIsrc_x\fP 1i
Specifies the offset in X from the left edge of the image defined
by the 
.PN XImage 
data structure.
.IP \fIsrc_y\fP 1i
Specifies the offset in from the top edge of the image defined
by the 
.PN XImage 
data structure.
.\" $Header: wdhtimage.a,v 1.3 87/08/26 04:12:10 mento Exp $ 
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height of the subimage.
These arguments define the dimensions of the rectangle.
.\" $Header: xyimage.a,v 1.3 87/09/10 20:27:46 mento Exp $ 
.IP \fIx\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIy\fP 1i
Specify the x and y coordinates.
These coordinates define the upper left corner of the rectangle and are relative to
the origin of the drawable.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XPutImage.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 11:24:43 mento Exp $
The
.PN XPutImage
function
combines an image in memory with a rectangle of the specified drawable.
.ds fd .PN XPutImage
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
.PN BadValue ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetImage.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:29 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetImage
function returns the
.PN XImage
structure.
This structure provides you with the contents of the specified rectangle of
the drawable in the format you specify.
.ds fd .PN XGetImage
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadValue ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetSImage.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:44 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetSubImage
function copies the contents of a rectangle in the specified drawable on the display
to the specified location within a pre-existing image structure.
.ds fd .PN XGetSubImage
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadGC ,
.PN BadValue ,
and
.PN BadMatch .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: badmatch2.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:53:42 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
Some argument or pair of arguments has the correct type and range but fails
to match in some other way required by the request.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
