.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XQueryBestSize 3X 
.SH NAME
XQueryBestSize, XQueryBestTile, XQueryBestStipple \- determine efficient sizes
.SH SYNTAX
Status XQueryBestSize\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIclass\fP, \fIwhich_screen\fP, \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP, \fIwidth_return\fP, \fIheight_return\fP\^) 
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIclass\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fIwhich_screen\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.LP
Status XQueryBestTile\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIwhich_screen\fP, \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP, \fIwidth_return\fP, \fIheight_return\fP\^) 
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fIwhich_screen\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.LP
Status XQueryBestStipple\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIwhich_screen\fP, \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP, \fIwidth_return\fP, \fIheight_return\fP\^) 
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fIwhich_screen\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclass\fP 1i
Specifies the class that you are interested in.
You can pass one of these constants:
.PN TileShape , 
.PN CursorShape , 
or 
.PN StippleShape .
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: widtheight.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:26 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height.
.IP \fIwhich_screen\fP 1i
Specifies any drawable on a screen.
.\" $Header: rwidtheight.a,v 11.6 87/09/13 22:07:57 jg Exp $
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Returns the width and height of the object best supported by the display hardware.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XQBestSize.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 09:57:50 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryBestSize
function returns the best or closest size to the specified size.
.ds fd .PN XQueryBestSize
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadDrawable ,
.PN BadMatch ,
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XQTileShp.d,v 1.3 87/09/04 17:13:44 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryBestTile
function returns the best or closest size, that is, the size that can be
tiled fastest on the screen specified by which_screen.
.ds fd .PN XQueryBestTile
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadDrawable .
.LP
.\" $Header: XQStipShp.d,v 1.3 87/09/04 17:17:40 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryBestStipple
function returns the best or closest size, that is, the size that can be
stippled fastest on the screen specified by which_screen.
.ds fd .PN XQueryBestStipple
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadDrawable .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badmatch1.e,v 1.3 87/09/09 18:18:54 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
An
.PN InputOnly
window is used as a Drawable.
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.\" $Header: badmatch4.e,v 1.2 87/09/11 11:43:34 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadMatch
The values do not exist for an
.PN InputOnly
window.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3X),
XSetArcMode(3X),
XSetClipOrigin(3X),
XSetFillStyle(3X),
XSetFont(3X),
XSetLineAttributes(3X),
XSetState(3X),
XSetTile(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
