.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XQueryColor 3X 
.SH NAME
XQueryColor, XQueryColors, XLookupColor \- obtain color values
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XQueryColor.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:15:08 mento Exp $
XQueryColor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcmap\fP\^, \fIdef_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Colormap \fIcmap\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIdef_return\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XQueryColors.f,v 11.7 87/09/07 11:38:38 mento Exp $
XQueryColors\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcmap\fP\^, \fIdefs_return\fP\^, \fIncolors\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Colormap \fIcmap\fP\^;
.br
      XColor \fIdefs_return\fP[\^]\^;
.br
      int \fIncolors\fP\^;
.LP
Status XLookupColor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcmap\fP, \fIcolorname\fP, \fIscreen_def_return\fP, \fIexact_def_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Colormap \fIcmap\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIcolorname\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIscreen_def_return\fP, *\fIexact_def_return\fP\^; 
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: cmap.a,v 11.3 87/06/16 08:35:24 jg Exp $
.IP \fIcmap\fP 1i
Specifies the color map ID.
.IP \fIdef_return\fP 1i
Returns the RGB values for the pixel specified in the structure.
.\" $Header: defs_ret.a,v 1.2 87/09/10 12:12:37 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdefs_return\fP 1i
Returns an array of color definition structures.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: exact_def.a,v 11.9 87/09/10 17:08:12 mento Exp $
.IP \fIexact_def_return\fP 1i
Returns the true pixel values that indicate the closest color provided 
by the hardware for the specified color name.
.\" $Header: ncolors.a,v 11.3 87/05/18 10:54:12 jg Exp $
.IP \fIncolors\fP 1i
.\"Specifies the number of color definition structures. 
Specifies the number of 
.PN XColor
structures in the color definition array.
.\" $Header: def.a,v 11.7 87/09/10 17:06:31 mento Exp $
.IP \fIscreen_def_return\fP 1i
Returns the values actually used in the color map.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" The following takes care of both XQueryColor and XQueryColors.
.\" $Header: XQueryColor.d,v 1.4 87/09/01 14:42:42 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryColor
function returns the red, green, and blue color values stored in cmap for
the pixel value you passed to the pixel member of the
.PN XColor
structure.
The values returned for an unallocated entry are undefined.
The
.PN XQueryColors
function does the same thing, except that it operates on an array of
.PN XColor
structures.
They also set the flags member in the
.PN XColor
structure to all three colors.
.ds fd .PN XQueryColor
.ds fe .PN XQueryColors
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
and
\*(fe
are
.PN BadValue
and
.PN BadColor .
.LP
.\" $Header: XLkUpColor.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 08:09:03 mento Exp $
The
.PN XLookupColor
function looks up the string name of a color with respect to the screen
associated with the specified cmap and
returns both the exact color values and
the closest values provided by the hardware with respect to the visual type of cmap.
.ds fd .PN XLookupColor
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadColor
and
.PN BadName .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badcolor.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:57 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadColor
A value for a Colormap argument does not name a defined Colormap.
.\" $Header: badname.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadName
A font or color of the specified name does not exist.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XAllocColor(3X),
XCreateColormap(3X),
XStoreColors(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
