.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XQueryPointer 3X 
.SH NAME
XQueryPointer \- get pointer coordinates
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XQueryPntr.f,v 11.10 87/08/15 12:15:13 mento Exp $
Bool XQueryPointer\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP\^, \fIroot_return\fP\^, \fIchild_return\fP\^, \fIroot_x_return\fP\^, \fIroot_y_return\fP\^, 
.br
                     \fIwin_x_return\fP\^, \fIwin_y_return\fP\^, \fImask_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      Window *\fIroot_return\fP\^, *\fIchild_return\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIroot_x_return\fP\^, *\fIroot_y_return\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIwin_x_return\fP\^, *\fIwin_y_return\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fImask_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIchild_return\fP 1i
Returns the child window ID that the pointer is located in, if any.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: mask1.a,v 11.8 87/09/10 12:19:00 mento Exp $
.IP \fImask_return\fP 1i
Returns the current state of the modifier keys and pointer buttons.
.\" $Header: root.a,v 11.7 87/09/09 18:50:21 mento Exp $
.IP \fIroot_return\fP 1i
Returns the root window ID for the specified window.
.\" $Header: rootxy.a,v 11.5 87/09/10 12:20:45 mento Exp $
.IP \fIroot_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIroot_y_return\fP 1i
Returns the pointer coordinates relative to the root window's origin.
.\" $Header: w.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:22 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID.
.\" $Header: winxy.a,v 11.6 87/09/10 12:22:32 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwin_x_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIwin_y_return\fP 1i
Returns the pointer coordinates relative to the specified window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XQueryPntr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:49 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryPointer
function returns the root window the pointer is currently on and the pointer
coordinates relative to the root window's origin.
.ds fd .PN XQueryPointer
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadWindow .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XGetWindowAttributes(3X),
XQueryTree(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
