.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XRecolorCursor 3X 
.SH NAME
XRecolorCursor, XFreeCursor, XQueryBestCursor \- manipulate cursors
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XRecolorCurs.f,v 11.6 87/09/02 09:47:13 mento Exp $
XRecolorCursor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcursor\fP\^, \fIforeground_color\fP\^, \fIbackground_color\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Cursor \fIcursor\fP\^;
.br
      XColor *\fIforeground_color\fP\^, *\fIbackground_color\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XFreeCursor.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:12:45 mento Exp $
XFreeCursor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIcursor\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Cursor \fIcursor\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XQryCrsrSh.f,v 11.7 87/08/15 12:15:05 mento Exp $
Status XQueryBestCursor\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fId\fP, \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^, \fIwidth_return\fP\^, \fIheight_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Drawable \fId\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIwidth\fP\^, \fIheight\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int *\fIwidth_return\fP\^, *\fIheight_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: bcolor.a,v 11.3 87/09/02 09:52:56 mento Exp $
.IP \fIbackground_color\fP 1i
Specifies the red, green, and blue (RGB) values for the background of the
source.
.\" $Header: cursor.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:55 mento Exp $
.IP \fIcursor\fP 1i
Specifies the cursor. 
.\" $Header: d.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:54:59 mento Locked $
.IP \fId\fP 1i
Specifies the drawable. 
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: scolor.a,v 11.3 87/09/02 09:52:08 mento Exp $
.IP \fIforeground_color\fP 1i
Specifies the red, green, and blue (RGB) values for the foreground of the
source. 
.\" $Header: widtheight5.a,v 1.2 87/09/13 22:09:10 jg Exp $
.IP \fIwidth\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight\fP 1i
Specify the width and height of the cursor that you want the size information for.
.\" $Header: rwidtheight2.a,v 1.2 87/09/10 13:31:00 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwidth_return\fP 1i
.br
.ns
.IP \fIheight_return\fP 1i
Returns the best width and height (that is, closest to the specified width 
and height).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XRecolorCurs.d,v 1.2 87/08/31 11:22:55 mento Exp $
The
.PN XRecolorCursor
function changes the color of the specified cursor, and,
if the cursor is being displayed on a screen, the change is visible
immediately.
.ds fd .PN XRecolorCursor
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadCursor .
.LP
.\" $Header: XFreeCursor.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 11:39:08 mento Exp $
The
.PN XFreeCursor
function deletes the association between the cursor resource ID and the specified
cursor.
.ds fd .PN XFreeCursor
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadCursor .
.LP
.\" $Header: XQryCrsrSh.d,v 1.2 87/08/31 11:24:14 mento Exp $
The
.PN XQueryBestCursor
function 
returns the closest shape actually supported by the
display hardware.
.ds fd .PN XQueryBestCursor
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadDrawable .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badcursor.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:58 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadCursor
A value for a Cursor argument does not name a defined Cursor.
.\" $Header: baddrawable.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:59 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadDrawable
A value for a Drawable argument does not name a defined Window or Pixmap.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateFontCursor(3X),
XDefineCusor(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
