.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSaveContext 3X 
.SH NAME
XSaveContext, XFindContext, XDeleteContext, XUniqueContext \- manipulate the context manager
.SH SYNTAX
int XSaveContext(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP, \fIcontext\fP, \fIdata\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;	
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      XContext \fIcontext\fP\^;
.br
      caddr_t \fIdata\fP\^;
.LP
int XFindContext(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP, \fIcontext\fP, \fIdata_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      XContext \fIcontext\fP\^;
.br
      caddr_t *\fIdata_return\fP\^;	
.LP
int XDeleteContext(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP, \fIcontext\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP;
.br
      XContext \fIcontext\fP;
.LP
XContext XUniqueContext(\^)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcontext\fP 1i
Specifies the context type to which the data belongs.
.IP \fIdata\fP 1i
Specifies the data to be associated with the window and type.
.IP \fIdata_return\fP 1i
Returns a pointer to the data.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window with which the data is associated.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSContext.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:07 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSaveContext
function saves a data value that corresponds to a window and context type.
.LP
.\" $Header: XFContext.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:53 mento Exp $
The
.PN XFindContext
function gets the data associated with a window and type.
.LP
.\" $Header: XDContext.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:18:36 mento Exp $
The
.PN XDeleteContext
function deletes an entry for a given window and type.
.LP
.\" $Header: XUContext.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:22:03 mento Exp $
The
.PN XUniqueContext
function creates a unique context type that may be used in subsequent calls to
.PN XSaveContext .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
