.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetArcMode 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetArcMode, XSetSubwindowMode, XSetGraphicsExposure \- GC convience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XSetArcMode.f,v 11.2 87/08/15 12:15:44 mento Exp $
XSetArcMode\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIarc_mode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIarc_mode\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetSubMode.f,v 11.2 87/08/15 12:16:43 mento Exp $
XSetSubwindowMode\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIsubwindow_mode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIsubwindow_mode\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetGrExp.f,v 11.2 87/08/15 12:16:20 mento Exp $
XSetGraphicsExposures\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIgraphics_exposures\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      Boolean \fIgraphics_exposures\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: arc_mode.a,v 11.2 87/09/10 14:29:30 mento Exp $
.IP \fIarc_mode\fP 1i
Specifies the arc mode:
.PN ArcChord
specifies that arcs will be chord filled, while
.PN ArcPieSlice 
specifies that arcs will be pie slice filled.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: graph_exp.a,v 11.4 87/09/11 16:15:14 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgraphics_exposures\fP 1i
Specifies whether you want
.PN GraphicsExpose
events to be reported when calling
.PN XCopyArea
and
.PN XCopyPlane
with this graphics context.
If
.PN True ,
.PN GraphicsExpose
events are reported.
If
.PN False ,
.PN GraphicsExpose
events are not reported.
.\" $Header: sub_mode.a,v 11.4 87/09/10 14:32:41 mento Exp $
.IP \fIsubwindow_mode\fP 1i
Specifies the subwindow mode:
.PN ClipByChildren
clips source and destination by all viewable children, while
.PN IncludeInferiors 
draws through all subwindows, that is, does not clip by inferiors.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetArcMode.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:11 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetArcMode
function sets the arc mode in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetArcMode
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC 
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetSubMode.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:42 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetSubwindowMode
function sets the subwindow mode in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetSubwindowMode
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetGrExp.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:25 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetGraphicsExposures
function sets the graphics-exposures flag in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetGraphicsExposures
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC 
and
.PN BadValue .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3X),
XQueryBestSize(3X),
XSetClipOrigin(3X),
XSetFillStyle(3X),
XSetFont(3X),
XSetLineAttributes(3X),
XSetState(3X),
XSetTile(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
