.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetCloseDownMode 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetCloseDownMode, XKillClient \- control clients
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XChClsDwnMd.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:10:54 mento Exp $
XSetCloseDownMode\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIclose_mode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIclose_mode\fP\^;	
.LP
.\" $Header: XKillClient.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:14:05 mento Exp $
XKillClient\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIresource\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      XID \fIresource\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: closemode.a,v 11.3 87/06/02 10:54:45 jg Exp $
.IP \fIclose_mode\fP 1i
Specifies the client close down mode you want to change.
You can pass one of these constants:
.PN DestroyAll , 
.PN RetainPermanent , 
or
.PN RetainTemporary . 
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: resource.a,v 11.6 87/09/07 14:13:13 jg Exp $
.IP \fIresource\fP 1i
Specifies any resource associated with the client you want to destroy.
You can also pass the constant
.PN AllTemporary .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XChClsDwnMd.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:54 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetCloseDownMode
defines what will happen to the client's resources at connection close.
.ds fd .PN XSetCloseDownMode
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XKillClient.d,v 1.2 87/08/28 12:38:55 mento Exp $
The
.PN XKillClient
function
forces a close-down of the client
that created the resource
if a valid resource is specified.
.ds fd .PN XKillClient
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadValue .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
