.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetFontPath 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetFontPath, XGetFontPath, XFreeFontPath \- set, get, or free the font search path
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XSetFontPath.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:16:18 mento Exp $
XSetFontPath\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIdirectories\fP\^, \fIndirs\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      char **\fIdirectories\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIndirs\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetFontPath.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:12:57 mento Exp $
char **XGetFontPath\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fInpaths_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fInpaths_return\fP\^;

.LP
.\" $Header: XFFontPath.f,v 1.3 87/08/15 12:12:26 mento Exp $
XFreeFontPath\^(\^\fIlist\fP\^)
.br
      char **\fIlist\fP\^;

.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: directories.a,v 11.4 87/09/02 09:07:59 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdirectories\fP 1i
Specifies the directory path used to look for a font.
Setting the path to the empty list restores the default path defined
for the X server.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: list.a,v 11.3 87/03/28 10:57:25 mento Exp $
.IP \fIlist\fP 1i
Specifies the array of strings you want to free.
.\" $Header: ndirs.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:58:12 mento Exp $
.IP \fIndirs\fP 1i
Specifies the number of directories in the path.
.\" $Header: npaths.a,v 11.5 87/09/10 15:15:25 mento Exp $
.IP \fInpaths_return\fP 1i
Returns the number of strings in the font path array.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetFontPath.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:22 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetFontPath
function defines the directory search path for font lookup.
.ds fd .PN XSetFontPath
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetFontPath.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:23 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetFontPath
function allocates and returns an array of strings containing the search path.
The data in the font path should be freed when no longer needed.
.LP
.\" $Header: XFFontPath.d,v 1.2 87/09/07 16:11:19 jg Exp $
The
.PN XFreeFontPath
function, when presented the data from
.PN XGetFontPath ,
frees the data used by the array.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XListFont(3X),
XLoadFonts(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
