.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetLineAttribute 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetLineAttribute, XSetDashes \- GC convience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XSetLnStle.f,v 11.6 87/08/15 12:16:26 mento Exp $
XSetLineAttributes\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIline_width\fP\^, \fIline_style\fP\^, \fIcap_style\fP\^, \fIjoin_style\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned int \fIline_width\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIline_style\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIcap_style\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIjoin_style\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetDashes.f,v 11.6 87/08/15 12:15:50 mento Exp $
XSetDashes\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIdash_offset\fP\^, \fIdash_list\fP\^, \fIn\fP\^)
.br
        Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
        GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
        int \fIdash_offset\fP\^;
.br
        char \fIdash_list\fP[]\^;
.br
        int \fIn\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: cap_style.a,v 11.4 87/03/28 10:54:25 mento Exp $
.IP \fIcap_style\fP 1i
Specifies the line and cap style you want to set for 
the specified graphics context.
Possible values are
.PN CapNotLast ,
.PN CapButt ,
.PN CapRound ,
or
.PN CapProjecting .
.\" $Header: dashlist.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:55:01 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdash_list\fP 1i
Specifies the dash list for the dashed line style
you want to set
for the specified graphics context. 
.\" $Header: dashoff.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:55:03 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdash_offset\fP 1i
Specifies the phase of the pattern for the dashed line style you want to set
for the specified graphics context. 
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: join_style.a,v 11.4 87/03/28 10:57:08 mento Exp $
.IP \fIjoin_style\fP 1i
Specifies the line-join style you want to set for 
the specified graphics context.
Possible values are
.PN JoinMiter ,
.PN JoinRound ,
or
.PN JoinBevel .
.\" $Header: line_style.a,v 11.4 87/03/28 10:57:20 mento Exp $
.IP \fIline_style\fP 1i
Specifies the line style you want to set for 
the specified graphics context.
Possible values are 
.PN LineSolid 
(solid),
.PN LineOnOffDash
(on-off dash),
or
.PN LineDoubleDash
(double dash).
.\" $Header: line_width.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:57:22 mento Exp $
.IP \fIline_width\fP 1i
Specifies the line width you want to set for 
the specified graphics context.
.\" $Header: n3.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:57:58 mento Exp $
.IP \fIn\fP 1i
Specifies the length of the dash list argument. 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetLnStle.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:28 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetLineAttributes
function sets the line drawing components in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetLineAttributes
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC 
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetDashes.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:17 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetDashes
function sets the dash_offset and dash_list for dashed line styles
in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetDashes
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadAlloc
and
.PN BadGC .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3X),
XQueryBestSize(3X),
XSetArcMode(3X),
XSetClipOrigin(3X),
XSetFillStyle(3X),
XSetFont(3X),
XSetState(3X),
XSetTile(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
