.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetSelectionOwner 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetSelectionOwner, XGetSelectionOwner, XConvertSelection \- manipulate window selection
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XSetSelOwner.f,v 11.5 87/08/15 12:16:40 mento Exp $
XSetSelectionOwner\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIselection\fP\^, \fIowner\fP\^, \fItime\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIselection\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIowner\fP\^; 
.br
      Time \fItime\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetSelOwner.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:13:43 mento Exp $
Window XGetSelectionOwner\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIselection\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIselection\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XConvertSel.f,v 11.7 87/09/07 10:11:57 mento Exp $
XConvertSelection\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIselection\fP\^, \fItarget\fP\^, \fIproperty\fP\^, \fIrequestor\fP\^, \fItime\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIselection\fP\^, \fItarget\fP\^;
.br
      Atom \fIproperty\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIrequestor\fP\^;
.br
      Time \fItime\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: owner.a,v 11.3 87/03/08 05:30:25 mento Exp $
.IP \fIowner\fP 1i
Specifies the owner of the specified selection atom.
You can pass a window ID or the constant
.PN None .
.\" $Header: property.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:51 mento Exp $
.IP \fIproperty\fP 1i
Specifies the property atom.
.\" $Header: requestor.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:00:11 mento Exp $
.IP \fIrequestor\fP 1i
Specifies the requestor.
.\" $Header: selection.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:00:38 mento Exp $
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies the selection atom.
.\" $Header: target.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:01:18 mento Exp $
.IP \fItarget\fP 1i
Specifies the target atom.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies the time.
You can pass either a timestamp, expressed in milliseconds, or the constant
.PN CurrentTime .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetSelOwner.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:39 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetSelectionOwner
function changes the owner and last change time for the specified selection.
.ds fd .PN XSetSelectionOwner
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow
and
.PN BadAtom .
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetSelOwner.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:46 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetSelectionOwner
function
returns the window ID associated with the window that currently owns the
specified selection.
If no selection was specified, the function returns the constant
.PN None .
.ds fd .PN XGetSelectionOwner
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadAtom .
.LP
.\" $Header: XConvertSel.d,v 1.3 87/09/11 15:11:36 mento Exp $
.PN XConvertSelection
requests that the specified selection be converted to the specified target
type:
.IP \(bu 5
If the specified selection has an owner, the X server sends a
.PN SelectionRequest
event to that owner.
.IP \(bu 5
If no owner for the specified
selection exists, the X server generates a
.PN SelectionNotify
event to the
requestor with property
.PN None .
The arguments are passed on unchanged in either event.
.ds fd .PN XConvertSelection
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow
and
.PN BadAtom .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badatom.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:22:55 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAtom
A value for an Atom argument does not name a defined Atom.
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
