.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetScreenSaver 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetScreenSaver, XForceScreenSaver, XActivateScreenSaver, XResetScreenSaver, 
XGetScreenSaver \- manipulate the screen saver
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XSetScrnSvr.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:16:38 mento Exp $
XSetScreenSaver\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fItimeout\fP\^, \fIinterval\fP\^, \fIprefer_blanking\fP\^, \fIallow_exposures\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fItimeout\fP\^, \fIinterval\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIprefer_blanking\fP\^; 
.br
      int \fIallow_exposures\fP\^;
.LP
XForceScreenSaver\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^, \fImode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int \fImode\fP\^;
.LP
XActivateScreenSaver\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.LP
XResetScreenSaver\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetScrnSvr.f,v 11.7 87/08/15 12:13:42 mento Exp $
XGetScreenSaver\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fItimeout_return\fP\^, \fIinterval_return\fP\^, \fIprefer_blanking_return\fP\^, 
.br
                  \fIallow_exposures_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fItimeout_return\fP\^, *\fIinterval_return\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIprefer_blanking_return\fP\^;
.br
      int *\fIallow_exposures_return\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: allowexp.a,v 11.3 87/03/28 10:53:46 mento Exp $
.IP \fIallow_exposures\fP 1i
Specifies the current screen save control values.
Possible values are
.PN DontAllowExposures ,
.PN AllowExposures ,
or
.PN DefaultExposures .
.\" $Header: allowexpret.a,v 1.6 87/09/10 15:33:48 mento Exp $
.IP \fIallow_exposures_return\fP 1i
Returns the current screen save control value:
.PN DontAllowExposures ,
.PN AllowExposures ,
or
.PN DefaultExposures .
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: interval.a,v 11.5 87/05/28 05:17:01 jg Exp $
.IP \fIinterval\fP 1i
Specifies the interval between screen saver invocations.
.\" $Header: intervalret.a,v 1.8 87/09/10 15:35:00 mento Exp $
.IP \fIinterval_return\fP 1i
Returns the interval between screen saver invocations.
.IP \fImode\fP 1i
Specifies the mode that is to be applied.
.\" $Header: preferblank.a,v 11.4 87/03/28 10:59:34 mento Exp $
.IP \fIprefer_blanking\fP 1i
Specifies whether to enable screen blanking.
Possible values are
.PN DontPreferBlanking ,
.PN PreferBlanking ,
or
.PN DefaultBlanking .
.\" $Header: prefrblnkret.a,v 1.8 87/09/10 15:36:05 mento Exp $
.IP \fIprefer_blanking_return\fP 1i
Returns the current screen blanking preference:
.PN DontPreferBlanking ,
.PN PreferBlanking ,
or
.PN DefaultBlanking .
.\" $Header: timeout.a,v 11.4 87/06/09 15:51:42 jg Exp $
.IP \fItimeout\fP 1i
Specifies the timeout, in seconds, until the screen saver turns on.
.\" $Header: timeoutret.a,v 1.7 87/08/13 12:47:58 mento Exp $
.IP \fItimeout_return\fP 1i
Returns the timeout, in minutes, until the screen saver turns on.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetScrnSvr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:38 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetScreenSaver
function sets the screen saver.
.ds fd .PN XSetScreenSaver
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XForScrnSvr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:10 mento Exp $
The
.PN XForceScreenSaver
function forces the screen saver.
.ds fd .PN XForceScreenSaver
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XActScrnSvr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:17:22 mento Exp $
The
.PN XActivateScreenSaver
function activates the screen saver.
.LP
.\" $Header: XRstScrnSvr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:06 mento Exp $
The
.PN XResetScreenSaver
function resets the screen saver.
.LP
.\" $Header: XGetScrnSvr.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:19:45 mento Exp $
The
.PN XGetScreenSaver
function gets the current screen saver values.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
