.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetStandardProperties 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetStandardProperties \- set standard window manager properties
.SH SYNTAX
XSetStandardProperties\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIw\fP, \fIwindow_name\fP, \fIicon_name\fP, \fIicon_pixmap\fP, \fIargv\fP, \fIargc\fP, \fIhints\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Window \fIw\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIwindow_name\fP\^;
.br
      char *\fIicon_name\fP\^;
.br
      Pixmap \fIicon_pixmap\fP\^;
.br
      char **\fIargv\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIargc\fP\^;
.br
      XSizeHints *\fIhints\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIargc\fP 1i
Specifies the number of arguments.
.IP \fIargv\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the command and arguments used to start
the application.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIhints\fP 1i
Specifies a pointer to the sizing hints for the window in its normal state.
.\" $Header: icon_name.a,v 1.2 87/06/14 23:36:46 hania Exp $
.IP \fIicon_name\fP 1i
Specifies the name to be displayed in the window's icon.
.IP \fIicon_pixmap\fP 1i
Specifies the pixmap that is to be used for the icon or
.PN None .
.\" $Header: w.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:22 mento Exp $
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the window ID.
.\" $Header: window_name.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 11:02:35 mento Exp $
.IP \fIwindow_name\fP 1i
Specifies the name of the window.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetSProp.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:37 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetStandardProperties
function provides a means by which, with a single call, simple applications set the
most essential properties.
.ds fd .PN XSetStandardProperties
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadWindow 
and
.PN BadAlloc .
.SH PROPERTIES
WM_NAME, WM_ICON_NAME, WM_HINTS, WM_COMMAND, and WM_NORMALHINTS
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badalloc.e,v 1.3 87/09/11 11:17:14 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadAlloc
The server failed to allocate the requested resource or server memory.
.\" $Header: badwindow.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:20 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadWindow
A value for a Window argument does not name a defined Window.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XSetClassHint(3X),
XSetCommand(3X),
XSetIconName(3X),
XSetIconSizeHints(3X),
XSetNormalHints(3X),
XSetSizeHints(3X),
XSetTransientForHint(3X),
XSetWMHints(3X),
XSetZoomHints(3X),
XStoreName(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
