.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XSetState 3X 
.SH NAME
XSetState, XSetFunction, XSetPlanemask, XSetForeground, XSetBackground 
\- GC convience routines
.SH SYNTAX
.\" $Header: XSetState.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:16:41 mento Exp $
XSetState\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIforeground\fP\^, \fIbackground\fP\^, \fIfunction\fP\^, \fIplane_mask\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIforeground\fP\^, \fIbackground\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIfunction\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIplane_mask\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetFunc.f,v 11.3 87/08/15 12:16:19 mento Exp $
XSetFunction\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIfunction\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIfunction\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetPlnMsk.f,v 11.5 87/09/04 17:01:44 mento Exp $
XSetPlaneMask\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIplane_mask\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIplane_mask\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetFgrnd.f,v 11.4 87/08/15 12:16:16 mento Exp $
XSetForeground\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIforeground\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIforeground\fP\^;
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetBckgrnd.f,v 11.6 87/08/15 12:15:45 mento Exp $
XSetBackground\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIgc\fP\^, \fIbackground\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      GC \fIgc\fP\^;
.br
      unsigned long \fIbackground\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: background.a,v 11.3 87/03/28 10:54:03 mento Exp $
.IP \fIbackground\fP 1i
Specifies the background you want to set for the specified
graphics context.
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.\" $Header: foreground.a,v 11.3 87/03/28 10:56:23 mento Exp $
.IP \fIforeground\fP 1i
Specifies the foreground you want to set for the specified
graphics context.
.\" $Header: function.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:32 mento Exp $
.IP \fIfunction\fP 1i
Specifies the function you want to set for the specified graphics context.
.\" $Header: gc.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:56:36 mento Exp $
.IP \fIgc\fP 1i
Specifies the graphics context.
.\" $Header: plane_mask.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:59:16 mento Exp $
.IP \fIplane_mask\fP 1i
Specifies the plane mask.
.\" *** JIM: NEED MORE INFO FOR THIS. ***
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSetState.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:40 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetState
function sets the foreground, background, plane mask, and function components
for the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetState
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetFunc.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:24 mento Exp $
.PN XSetFunction
sets a specified value in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetFunction
The errors that can be generated by 
\*(fd
are
.PN BadGC 
and
.PN BadValue .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetPlnMsk.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:32 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetPlaneMask
function sets the plane mask in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetPlaneMask
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadGC .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetFgrnd.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:21 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetForeground
function sets the foreground in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetForeground
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadGC .
.LP
.\" $Header: XSetBckgrnd.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:12 mento Exp $
The
.PN XSetBackground
function sets the background in the specified graphics context.
.ds fd .PN XSetBackground
The error that can be generated by
\*(fd 
is
.PN BadGC .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.\" $Header: badgc.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:02 mento Locked $
.TP 1i
.PN BadGC
A value for a GContext argument does not name a defined GContext.
.\" $Header: badvalue.e,v 1.1 87/09/04 08:23:19 mento Exp $
.TP 1i
.PN BadValue
Some numeric value falls outside the range of values accepted by the request.
Unless a specific range is specified for an argument, the full range defined
by the argument's type is accepted.  Any argument defined as a set of
alternatives can generate this error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XCreateGC(3X),
XQueryBestSize(3X),
XSetArcMode(3X),
XSetClipOrigin(3X),
XSetFillStyle(3X),
XSetFont(3X),
XSetLineAttributes(3X),
XSetTile(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
