.na
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA 1.0i 3i
.ta 1.0i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de PN
.ie t \f(H\|\\$1\|\fR\\$2
.el \fI\|\\$1\|\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XStringToKeysym 3X 
.SH NAME
XStringToKeysym, XKeysymToString, XKeycodeToKeysym, XKeysymToKeycode \- convert keysyms
.SH SYNTAX
KeySym XStringToKeysym\^(\^\fIstring\fP\^)
.br
      char *\fIstring\fP\^;
.LP
char *XKeysymToString\^(\^\fIkeysym_str\fP\^)
.br
      KeySym \fIkeysym_str\fP\^;
.LP
KeySym XKeycodeToKeysym\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIkeycode\fP, \fIindex_return\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      KeyCode \fIkeycode\fP\^;
.br
      int \fIindex_return\fP\^;
.LP
KeyCode XKeysymToKeycode\^(\^\fIdisplay\fP, \fIkeysym_kcode\fP\^)
.br
      Display *\fIdisplay\fP\^;
.br
      Keysym \fIkeysym_kcode\fP\^;
.SH ARGUMENTS
.\" $Header: display.a,v 11.8 87/09/03 11:02:24 mento Exp $
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server.
.IP \fIindex_return\fP 1i
Returns the element of keycode vector.
.\" $Header: keycode.a,v 11.2 87/03/28 10:57:14 mento Exp $
.IP \fIkeycode\fP 1i
Specifies the keycode.
.IP \fIkeysym_kcode\fP 1i
Specifies the keysym that is to be searched for.
.IP \fIkeysym_str\fP 1i
Specifies the keysym that is to be converted.
.IP \fIstring\fP 1i
Specifies the name of the keysym that is to be converted.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" $Header: XSTKeysym.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:21:08 mento Exp $
The
.PN XStringToKeysym
function converts the name of the keysym to the keysym code.
.LP
.\" $Header: XKTString.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:03 mento Exp $
The
.PN XKeysymToString
function converts a keysym code to the name of the keysym.
.LP
.\" $Header: XKTKeysym.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:03 mento Exp $
The
.PN XKeycodeToKeysym
function converts a key code to a defined keysym.
.LP
.\" $Header: XKTKeycode.d,v 1.1 87/08/27 14:20:02 mento Exp $
The
.PN XKeysymToKeycode
function converts a keysym to the appropriate keycode.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XLookupKeysym(3X)
.br
\fIXlib \- C Language X Interface, Protocol Version 11\fP
